Skip to main content
ABC News

    Just In
    For You
    Politics
    World
    Business
    Analysis
    Sport
    Lifestyle

Search the ABC
Start typing for suggestions, press enter to search, or choose from a list of options below.
7-Eleven owners pay more than $173 million to employees five years after wages scandal revealed
By Rachel Clayton

    Topic:Business, Economics and Finance

Fri 30 Oct 2020
Friday 30 October 2020
7-Eleven in Sydney

Allegations of underpayments to 7-Eleven staff surfaced in 2015. (AAP: Paul Miller)
Link copied

Operators of 7-Eleven stores have paid back more than $173 million to staff and made more than $10 million worth of improvements five years after an investigation began into wage theft at the company.
Key points:

    Employees now clock in and out with a thumbprint that is cross-checked using facial recognition software
    A Fair Work Ombudsman inquiry found 7-Eleven franchisees had falsified records to hide stolen wages
    Franchisors can now be held responsible for their franchisees' conduct and may be subject to court proceedings and penalties

An inquiry by the Fair Work Ombudsman (FWO), which launched after media reports revealed the extent of underpayments made by franchisees, found several store owners had deliberately falsified records to disguise wage underpayments.

Between September 2015 and February 2020, 7-Eleven back-paid more than $176.3 million in wages, interest and superannuation to 4,043 current and former franchisee employees.

The FWO said 7-Eleven voluntarily entered into a Compliance Deed in December 2016 to improve compliance across its network.

The deed was a recommendation from the ombudsman's inquiry into the stores, which found significant underpayments to 7-Eleven staff.

The ombudsman's inquiry found several 7-Eleven franchisees had deliberately falsified records to disguise wage underpayments and that 7-Eleven's approach to workplace matters did not detect or address deliberate non-compliance.

The FWO brought 11 lawsuits against 7-Eleven franchisees resulting in courts awarding more than $1.8 million in penalties against them.

The penalties included franchisees operating unlawful cash-back schemes, paying unlawful flat rates to workers, and falsifying records.
Bike riders passing a 7-Eleven store

Improvements to payroll and time-recording systems have cost 7-Eleven operators at least $10 million. (ABC News: Margaret Burin)

Improvements owners have put in place include a biometric time recording system across all its Australian stores, requiring employees to clock-in and out with a thumbprint.

That was then cross-checked against employee facial recognition images and store rosters to enable more accurate recording of working hours.

The improved technology cost more than $10 million.

Other measures include 7-Eleven requiring all staff to be paid electronically, new compulsory online training on employment conditions for new employees, an Internal Investigations Unit and a new employment conditions chapter in the Franchisee Systems Manual.

The compliance partnership with the FWO also required 7-Eleven to engage an independent expert to complete three annual audits of its compliance with workplace laws.

The first audit in 2017 led to back-payments of $102,167.

No further underpayments were identified in the second and third annual audits.

Fair Work Ombudsman Sandra Parker said the compliance partnership had led to network-wide improvement to protect the workplace rights of current and future employees.

"We urge all head offices to prioritise compliance with workplace laws or risk systemic breaches that impact their brand and workforce," Ms Parker said.

    "Franchisors can now be held responsible for their franchisees' conduct and may be subject to enforcement action, court proceedings and penalties if their franchisees have breached the law."

7-Eleven Australia chief executive Angus McKay said in a statement he welcomed the release of FWO's compliance partnership report.

"Since 2015, we have continued to undertake independent reviews and audits [and] make improvements to our systems and processes," Mr McKay said.

"With ongoing support from staff across our network, we are incredibly pleased with the progress we have continued to make."
Get a morning news briefing in your inbox
Subscribe to our ABC NewsMail bringing you breaking news from overnight, plus a heads-up on the stories that will shape your day.
Email address
Your information is being handled in accordance with the ABC Privacy Collection Statement.

This site is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply.
Posted Fri 30 Oct 2020 at 1:38am
Friday 30 Oct 2020 at 1:38am
, updated Fri 30 Oct 2020 at 3:53am
Friday 30 Oct 2020 at 3:53am

News in Language

Listen to the news in Warlpiri, Yolngu Matha and Kriol
Listen
Top Stories
Reserve Bank cuts interest rates for third time this year

Topic:Interest Rates
Photo shows People walking past the outside of the Reserve Bank of Australia in Sydney.People walking past the outside of the Reserve Bank of Australia in Sydney.
Markets expect the cash rate to fall below 3pc, and the RBA can live with that

Analysis by Michael Janda
Photo shows Michele Bullock stands at podiumMichele Bullock stands at podium
Julie Bishop accused of bullying by ANU staff member, senate inquiry hears

Topic:Universities
Photo shows A woman wearing a denim jacket sitting at a desk with a microphone. A woman wearing a denim jacket sitting at a desk with a microphone.
Apple and Google lose landmark court case over anti-competitive conduct

Topic:Courts
Photo shows A Fortnite character is seen against a blue background surrounded by the logos for Apple and GoogleA Fortnite character is seen against a blue background surrounded by the logos for Apple and Google
The West's actions are still falling short of real pressure on Israel

Analysis by John Lyons
Photo shows Benjamin Netanyahu speaks into a microphone.Benjamin Netanyahu speaks into a microphone.
Related stories
7-Eleven court penalties top $1 million, says Fair Work Ombudsman

Topic:Business, Economics and Finance
Photo shows Bike riders passing a 7-Eleven storeBike riders passing a 7-Eleven store
Related topics

    ACT

    Australia

    Business, Economics and Finance

    Community and Society

    Law, Crime and Justice

    NSW

    NT

    QLD

    SA

    TAS

    VIC

    WA

    Work

Top Stories

    Reserve Bank cuts interest rates for third time this year

    Topic:Interest Rates
    Photo shows People walking past the outside of the Reserve Bank of Australia in Sydney.People walking past the outside of the Reserve Bank of Australia in Sydney.
    Markets expect the cash rate to fall below 3pc, and the RBA can live with that

    Analysis by Michael Janda
    Julie Bishop accused of bullying by ANU staff member, senate inquiry hears

    Topic:Universities
    Apple and Google lose landmark court case over anti-competitive conduct

    Topic:Courts
    The West's actions are still falling short of real pressure on Israel

    Analysis by John Lyons

Just In

    Child sex abuse survivor calls for urgent case management reform

    Topic:Child Sexual Abuse
    27m ago
    27 minutes ago
    21 new PFAS chemicals identified in Sydney tap water

    Topic:Water Pollution
    1h ago
    1 hours ago
    SkyCity Adelaide review finds casino suitable to hold licence

    Topic:Gambling
    1h ago
    1 hours ago
    Jury told they must remain unbiased in trial against former Hobart teacher Keith Bates-Willie

    Topic:Law, Crime and Justice
    1h ago
    1 hours ago

More Just In
Back to top
Footer
ABC News homepage
More From ABC NEWS

We acknowledge Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples as the First Australians and Traditional Custodians of the lands where we live, learn, and work.
Sections

    ABC NEWS
    Just In
    Watch Live
    Politics
    World
    Business
    Analysis
    Sport
    Science
    Health
    Entertainment
    Lifestyle
    Fact Check
    Other

News in language

    中文
    Berita Bahasa Indonesia
    Tok Pisin

Connect with ABC News

Facebook
Instagram
YouTube
Apple News

    X (formerly Twitter)

More from ABC News

    Contact ABC NEWS

This service may include material from Agence France-Presse (AFP), APTN, Reuters, AAP, CNN and the BBC World Service which is copyright and cannot be reproduced.

AEST = Australian Eastern Standard Time which is 10 hours ahead of GMT (Greenwich Mean Time)

    Editorial Policies
    Accessibility
    Help
    Contact Us
    About the ABC
    Privacy Policy
    Terms of Use
    © 2025 ABC


