
Skip to main content
France 24 - International breaking news, top stories and headlines

Home
Shows
Live
Newsfeed

    France
    Africa
    Middle East
    Americas
    Europe
    Asia-Pacific

    Home
    Live news

McDonald's apologises after China store bans black people

Beijing (AFP) –

Issued on: 14/04/2020 - 13:54
1 min Reading time
McDonald's apologises after China store bans black people

US chain McDonald's has apologised after a sign telling black people they were banned from entering a branch in southern China prompted outrage online, following reports of discriminatory treatment towards Africans in the city.

Tensions have flared between police and Africans in the southern metropolis of Guangzhou after local officials announced a cluster of COVID-19 cases in a neighbourhood with a large migrant population.

As the row escalated, posts widely shared online showed a sign at fast food chain McDonald's saying black people were not allowed to enter the restaurant.

The chain apologised and a spokesman for McDonald's told AFP that the notice was "not representative of our inclusive values".

In an emailed statement, Mcdonald's said it removed the sign and temporarily closed the Guangzhou restaurant "immediately upon learning of an unauthorized communication to our guests."

Several Africans have told AFP they had been forcibly evicted by police from their accommodation, refused service at shops and restaurants, and were subject to mass testing and arbitrary quarantines.

The row has also prompted a diplomatic flurry, with ambassadors and envoys from more than 20 African countries meeting assistant foreign minister Chen Xiaodong on Monday.

Chen promised at the meeting to "lift the health management (measures) on African people, except the confirmed patients", according to a foreign ministry statement.

He said the Guangdong government is "constantly taking measures to improve" and act "according to the principle of non-discrimination".

The statement said Chen asked the envoys to "look at the big picture of China-Africa friendship."

Diplomatic sources told AFP a number of African countries had written a joint letter to the foreign ministry, which condemned the "discrimination and stigmatisation of Africans" in China, but had not yet sent it.

Guangzhou's US consulate issued an alert on Saturday advising African-Americans to avoid travel to the city due to the targeted crackdown, and the US accused Chinese authorities of "xenophobia" toward Africans.

Beijing has also accused the US of using the row for political purposes to "drive a wedge" between China and Africa.

A total of 111 African nationals in Guangzhou have tested positive for COVID-19, including 19 imported cases, said the city's executive vice mayor on Monday, according to Xinhua.

He said that 4,553 Africans had undergone nucleic acid testing in Guangzhou since April 4.

But city officials said on Sunday that 4,553 African nationals are currently living in Guangzhou -- suggesting every African registered in the city has been tested.

© 2020 AFP
Promoted Content

Today's top stories

    Russia makes biggest 24-hour advance in eastern Ukraine ahead of Alaska summit
    Europe
    Trump and Zelensky seek meeting with Putin after US-Russia talks in Alaska
    Europe
    Israeli military approves plan for expanded offensive in Gaza
    Middle East
    'A disaster': Russia’s Africa Corps suffers its first defeat in Mali
    Africa
    Southern Europe wildfires kill at least three, displace thousands
    Europe

Advertising

Most read

    1
    Why Australia is risking US anger to recognise the state of Palestine
    Interview
    Middle East
    2
    Record-breaking heat sweeps Europe, fuelling the risk of wildfires
    Europe
    3
    Finland charges captain of Russian 'shadow fleet' tanker over Baltic Sea cable sabotage
    Europe
    4
    Jellyfish swarm forces France's largest nuclear plant to shut down
    France
    5
    Mali detains two dozen soldiers over alleged coup plot against junta
    Africa
    6
    UN says 242 journalists killed in Gaza as Al Jazeera mourns those killed in Israeli strike
    As it happened
    Middle East

Happening now

    USA
    France
    Israel
    Gaza Strip
    Israeli-Palestinian conflict

International

    USA
    United Kingdom
    Canada
    Australia
    Germany
    India
    Netherlands
    South Africa
    Italy

About France 24

    Who are we?
    Ethics charter
    Press room
    Contact France 24
    Report a bug
    Advertising
    Content licensing
    Join us

France Médias Monde websites

    RFI
    Learn French
    RFI Instrumental
    MCD
    InfoMigrants
    ENTR
    CFI
    Académie
    France Médias Monde

Services

    Newsletters
    RSS feeds
    Watch France 24 on TV

Application

    Download the France 24 app

RFI
France 24
مونت كارلو الدولية / MCD
France Médias Monde

    Legal notice
    Accessibility: not compliant
    Privacy
    Cookies
    Manage my privacy settings
    Notifications

    Facebook
    X
    Bluesky
    Threads
    Instagram
    YouTube
    TikTok
    Telegram
    SoundCloud

© 2025 Copyright France 24 - All rights reserved. France 24 is not responsible for the content of external websites. Audience ratings certified by ACPM.
ACPM

Because of your choice:

    Articles will no longer be able to display external content such as YouTube videos, posts from X (Twitter) and Instagram pictures.
    Cookies not linked to your personal data will be created to allow the website to run.
    Lower quality ads may be displayed.


