City Atrium T +32 2 277 52 72 info@bma-abc.be
Rue du Progrès 50 http://www.belgiancompetition.be
1210 Brussels
PRESS RELEASE
N° 16/2025
24 April 2025
The Belgian Competition Authority sanctions Johnson & Johnson Consumer, Boehringer Ingelheim and Haleon
in relation to an anti-competitive category management arrangement for the placement of OTC medicines in
pharmacies
The Belgian Competition Authority (‘BCA’) has imposed a combined fine of EUR 11,249,280.48 on Johnson &
Johnson Consumer NV (‘Johnson & Johnson Consumer’), Boehringer Ingelheim SComm (‘Boehringer Ingelheim’)
and Haleon Belgium NV (‘Haleon’), in the framework of a settlement pertaining to an anti-competitive category
management arrangement, which lasted more than 15 years.
Category management arrangements are commercial practices whereby a distributor entrusts one or different
suppliers with the organization of a product category. Such arrangements may have a broad scope. They may
include not only the supplier(s)'s products, but also the products of the supplier(s)'s competitors. A category
management arrangement can therefore influence the placement, promotion and selection of products in the
store.
The companies involved in the infringement jointly set up a category management arrangement for the
placement of OTC medicines (available without prescription) in pre-selected pharmacies in Belgium, known as
the Space Management Project (‘SMAN’). While category management arrangements are not prohibited as such
by competition rules, the SMAN project had the following anti-competitive characteristics:
- exclusion of (products of) competitors in the design and implementation of the planograms used for the
placement of OTC medicines in pharmacies;
- favoring of own products in the design and implementation of the planograms in question;
- monitoring of the SMAN agreements and of the implementation of the planograms in the relevant
pharmacies.
In its decision, the BCA considers that these practices pursued the common objective of sharing and controlling
the placement of OTC medicines on the shelves of a significant number of pharmacies in Belgium, and therefore
constitute an infringement of the Belgian and EU competition rules. The companies involved acknowledged their
participation in the infringement and agreed to the terms of a settlement proposed by the BCA’s Investigation
and Prosecution Service.
The BCA Prosecutor General, Damien Gerard, states:
“Prominent OTC suppliers jointly decided to control the visibility of OTC medicines in pharmacies by reserving
better space in the shelf planograms for the display of their own products while disadvantaging or even excluding
the products of their competitors. Together, they engaged in a form of category management that exceeded the
boundaries of competition law.
City Atrium T +32 2 277 52 72 info@bma-abc.be
Rue du Progrès 50 http://www.belgiancompetition.be
1210 Brussels
In setting the amount of the fine, the BCA took into account the fact that there is little precedent available on the
limits imposed by competition rules on category management arrangements in Europe. Today's decision is
therefore important as it provides an example of what can go wrong with category management.”
In terms of sanctions, Johnson & Johnson Consumer is fined EUR 4,771,584.00, Boehringer Ingelheim EUR
1,664,721.76 and Haleon EUR 4,812,974.72. These amounts include a statutory reduction in fine of 10% for
having entered into a settlement. Haleon was sanctioned as legal successor to other companies, of which it took
over the OTC activities in Belgium; the category management arrangement in question was also terminated
before the creation of Haleon as an independent company.
The decision will be published shortly on the website of the Belgian Competition Authority.
For more information you may contact:
Damien Gerard
Prosecutor general
Tel: +32 (2) 277 76 57
E-mail: damien.gerard@bma-abc.be
Website: www.abc-bma.be
The Belgian Competition Authority (BCA) is an independent administrative authority that contributes to the definition
and implementation of competition policy in Belgium. Concretely, the BCA pursues anti-competitive practices, such
as cartels and abuses of a dominant position, and reviews the main merger operations. The BCA cooperates with the
other competition authorities of the member states of the European Union and the European Commission within the
European Competition Network (ECN)
