
Charged

    Home
    News
        Apps / Mobile
        Artificial Intelligence
        Augmented Reality
        Companies
        Delivery / Supply Chain
        Instore
        Point of Sale
        Virtual Reality
    Features
    Newsletter
    About Us
        Contact
    Retail Gazette

eBay.co.uk is ‘worst’ UK ecommerce site for carbon emissions
CompaniesEcommerceNewsSustainability
22nd March 2022
George Iddenden

Online marketplace eBay.co.uk is the ‘worst’ UK ecommerce site for carbon emissions, generating three times more CO2 than Amazon.co.uk, according to the latest data from Banc Digital.

The digital marketing agency has revealed the top 10 worst ecommerce site emitters of CO2 using December 2021 figures from SEMRush and EPA.gov.

eBay.co.uk was found to be the worst emitter across the UK, generating 907.8 tonnes of CO2 per month in the UK alone. This is roughly the equivalent of powering 150 homes’ electricity for one year.

Its ecommerce rival Amazon.co.uk generates fewer emissions, despite receiving more site traffic each month. Amazon’s 397.9 tonnes of CO2 per month is approximately equal to consuming 40,618 gallons of petrol.

List of highest CO2 emitting sites

Both Currys.co.uk and Tesco.com were ranked in the top six, emitting a total of 178.1 and 45.9 tonnes per month, respectively.

Next.co.uk was the highest ranking fashion site in the UK figures, coming in just behind Tesco at 45.3 tonnes. This is roughly the same carbon consumption as 95 oils barrels.

US department store Macy’s was ranked as the global highest emitting fashion site, generating 276.9 tonnes of CO2 monthly.
How does a site generate its carbon footprint?

Banc Digital’s report revealed that businesses can generate carbon emissions from performing even the simplest tasks, ranging from Zoom calling to sending emails.

Websites can also carry a large carbon footprint if they have a lot of large files and high definition videos.
How to reduce the carbon footprint of your website

The analysis also includes tips on reducing the carbon footprint of a website. Tricks include optimising it properly without losing traffic, by cutting down on the amount of data-intensive, energy-sapping imagery used.

Images and videos should be necessary and provide value to visitors. Turning off auto-play functionality can also help to reduce carbon emissions, as can changing the format of images, as JPEGs are often smaller than PNG images.

Blanc also advises sites to limit the number of different fonts used, and to rely on system fonts like Arial where possible.

Web code should also be kept clean and simple on the back end of a site.
Click here to sign up to Charged‘s free daily email newsletter
CompaniesEcommerceNewsSustainability
AmazonArgosAsdaBanc Digitalcarbon footprintCO2 EmissionsCurrysEbayecommerceEtsyNextTesco
RELATED POSTS
Leave a Reply

Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Fill out this field
Fill out this field
Please enter a valid email address.

Social
SUBSCRIBE TO OUR NEWSLETTER

Sign up to our daily newsletter to get all the latest retail tech news and insights direct to your inbox.

    Email*

Latest Feature
TikTok Shop: Why #TikTokmademebuyit is “central to a new kind of shopping culture”
24/06/2022  10:25 AM
PN Headshot
The way we shop has seen a major shift over the past few years, driven by Gen Z and Millennials and accelerated by the pandemic. Once a simple product-based transaction,…
READ MORE
Most Read

In association with:

Editorial: 0208 222 0503
Commercial: 07854 369 791

UK: Four Cavendish Square,
Marylebone, London, W1G 0PG
The Company

    Subscribe to Newsletter
    Work for Us
    Advertising
    Terms and Conditions
    Privacy Policy
    Cookies

Search for:

© 2022 Copyright Charged. All rights reserved. Web Design Brighton
This website uses cookies to improve your experience. By continuing to browse the site you are agreeing to our use of cookies. Accept To find out more please read our privacy policy Read More
Privacy Overview
This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the ...
Necessary
Always Enabled
Non-necessary

