
Business
Markets
Tech
Media
Calculators
Videos
Watch
Listen
Live TV

Markets
	


DOW 43,975.09 0.45%
S&P 500 6,373.45 0.25%
NASDAQ 21,385.40 0.30%

Fear & Greed Index
	


58
greed is driving the US market

Latest Market News
	


Trump’s major China gamble has paid off so far. But Xi still holds trump cards
Elon Musk threatens to sue Apple over app store ranking of his AI app
US and China agree to critical extension, preventing tariff surge on the world’s two largest economies
Business
Economy
• 4 min read
Massive revisions shook the jobs report. Tuesday’s inflation data could get cloudy, too
By
Alicia Wallace
13 hr ago
Tuesday's inflation data is expected to show that prices are rising faster than they have in months. However, the Trump administration's federal budget and staffing cuts are making that data slightly more murky.
Tuesday's inflation data is expected to show that prices are rising faster than they have in months. However, the Trump administration's federal budget and staffing cuts are making that data slightly more murky.
David Paul Morris/Bloomberg/Getty Images

The next batch of inflation data from the Bureau of Labor Statistics was already shaping up to be a high-profile affair due to the expected impact of President Donald Trump’s hefty tariffs. But after Trump fired the agency’s top statistician, Tuesday’s report now comes with some other, unexpected baggage.

July’s Consumer Price Index is set to be released at 8:30 a.m. ET on Tuesday, just 11 days after Trump’s unprecedented firing of the head of the BLS, following a lackluster jobs report that contained substantial revisions to prior months of employment data. The president baselessly claimed that BLS Commissioner Erika McEntarfer “rigged” the data (an allegation that Trump’s former BLS head and a cadre of statisticians and economists resoundingly disputed).

Moreover, the data that feeds into the CPI could make the closely watched inflation gauge subject to greater revisions, in part due to Trump administration’s budget and staffing cuts.

“There’s going to be a larger margin of error with an expectation of rolling revisions to the CPI data in a way that is somewhat similar to what we see in the jobs data and the durable goods data,” Joe Brusuelas, chief economist at RSM US, told CNN.

The BLS, one of many federal agencies subject to the Department of Government Efficiency’s blunt axe, has increasingly cut back on the data collection that feeds into the critical pricing gauge.

Since April, the BLS stopped collecting data in three not-so-small metro areas (Buffalo, New York; Lincoln, Nebraska; and Provo, Utah) and further leaned on an imputation process used to estimate prices by means other than direct, local observations (such as making price comparisons on a regional or national basis instead).

The BLS said in early June that the tri-city collection reductions (which amounted to roughly 3.6% of the CPI’s overall sample) were expected to have “minimal” impact on the overall index but increase the volatility of geographic- or item-specific price indexes.

Two weeks ago, the agency shared a statistical analysis of those cutbacks using a 77-month study period. It showed that the annual inflation reading was one-tenth of a percentage point higher in 18% of those months and one-tenth of a percentage point lower in 14% of those months.

In that same notice, however, BLS also disclosed that it made a 15% wholesale reduction in collections across the other 72 coverage areas.

“Collection suspension affects both the Commodity and Services Pricing survey and the Housing survey,” the BLS wrote. “As a result, the number of collected prices and the number of collected rents used to calculate the CPI has temporarily been reduced.”

The BLS did not share any statistical analysis of those wider cuts nor provide enough information for others to estimate that, Alan Detmeister, a UBS senior economist who previously helmed the Federal Reserve’s Wages and Prices section, told CNN.

“The 15% of the remaining sample is four times larger than the number of observations dropped than those three cities,” he said. “And if those three cities already made it round differently a third of the time. You’re probably talking a tenth or so on overall inflation. Not huge, but it’s something.”

“It’s definitely degrading the quality of the inflation statistics,” he said.

While the reductions in price observations and increase in imputations could make the CPI data — especially on a monthly basis — less sharp, it’s not expected to cause similar large variations as seen in the survey-driven jobs report, which is reliant on an increasingly shrinking sample of respondents, RSM’s Brusuelas said.

“It’s going to bore us to sleep watching the back revisions in the CPI and [Personal Consumption Expenditures] data,” he said.
Related article
Some goods prices have been marching higher in recent weeks. Economists expect that to broaden and worsen.

Prices are now starting to rise because of tariffs. Economists say this is just the beginning

The issues of greater importance involving the CPI data is what Tuesday’s numbers say about the trajectory of inflation and any coinciding pushback from the Trump administration on any report that shows tariffs are driving prices higher, Brusuelas said.

For any presidential administration, that’s “tantamount to engaging in self-harm, attempting to tell the public that prices aren’t rising, when they can clearly feel it in their own bottom lines and reduced purchasing power of their paychecks,” he said. “You saw what happened when the Biden administration tried to play down price increases as inflation growth was slowing. It did not resonate.”

In June, CPI rose to 2.7%, its highest level in four months, as price increases — including those from tariffs — packed a bigger punch.

July’s CPI is expected to tell a similar tale: Tariffs are causing higher prices on a wider swath of goods while falling gas prices and tepid consumer demand is keeping a lid on some services prices.

All in all, the index is expected to rise 0.2% for the month and tick up to 2.8% on an annual basis, according to FactSet consensus estimates.

The July CPI will show “further evidence of tariff-induced inflation eroding the purchasing power of consumer paychecks,” Brusuelas said. “The thing to understand is this is not going to happen with a bang but more of a slow deterioration in purchasing power.”
Up next
Trump has federalized DC’s police force. Now what?
6 min read
Shooter kills three in a Target parking lot in Austin before being captured, police say
3 min read
A judge’s brutal rebuke of Trump’s Epstein gambit
4 min read
Trump wanted manufacturers to diversify away from China. Now many that heeded that call face stiff new tariffs
6 min read
Trump nominates Bureau of Labor Statistics critic as new commissioner
3 min read
Anas Al-Sharif became the face of the war in Gaza for millions. Then Israel killed him
5 min read
Most read
Trump has federalized DC’s police force. Now what?
Shooter kills three in a Target parking lot in Austin before being captured, police say
A judge’s brutal rebuke of Trump’s Epstein gambit
Trump wanted manufacturers to diversify away from China. Now many that heeded that ...
Trump nominates Bureau of Labor Statistics critic as new commissioner
Anas Al-Sharif became the face of the war in Gaza for millions. Then Israel killed him
Trump’s Washington, DC, crackdown is a political stunt. But it could take a much darker turn
Japan is selling top-of-the-line warships to another key US ally. What that means for the highly contested ...
Tropical Storm Erin in the Atlantic is expected to strengthen into the first hurricane of the season
Fast walking is a key to longevity, research shows

    World
        Africa
        Americas
        Asia
        Australia
        China
        Europe
        India
        Middle East
        United Kingdom
    US Politics
        Trump
        Facts First
        CNN Polls
        2025 Elections
    Business
        Tech
        Media
        Calculators
        Videos
    Markets
        Pre-markets
        After-Hours
        Fear & Greed
        Investing
        Markets Now
        Nightcap
    Health
        Life, But Better
        Fitness
        Food
        Sleep
        Mindfulness
        Relationships
    Entertainment
        Movies
        Television
        Celebrity
    Tech
        Innovate
        Foreseeable Future
        Mission: Ahead
        Work Transformed
        Innovative Cities
    Style
        Arts
        Design
        Fashion
        Architecture
        Luxury
        Beauty
        Video
    Travel
        Destinations
        Food & Drink
        Stay
        News
        Videos
    Sports
        Football
        Tennis
        Golf
        Motorsport
        US Sports
        Olympics
        Climbing
        Esports
        Hockey
    Science
        Space
        Life
        Unearthed
    Climate
        Solutions
        Weather
    Weather
        Video
        Climate
    Ukraine-Russia War
    Israel-Hamas War
    Features
        As Equals
        Call to Earth
        Freedom Project
        Impact Your World
        Inside Africa
        CNN Heroes
    Watch
        Live TV
        CNN Fast
        Shows A-Z
        CNN10
        CNN Max
        CNN TV Schedules
    Listen
        CNN 5 Things
        Chasing Life with Dr. Sanjay Gupta
        The Assignment with Audie Cornish
        One Thing
        Tug of War
        CNN Political Briefing
        The Axe Files
        All There Is with Anderson Cooper
        All CNN Audio podcasts
    Games
        Daily Crossword
        Jumble Crossword
        Photo Shuffle
        Sudoblock
        Sudoku
        5 Things Quiz
    About CNN
        Photos
        Investigations
        CNN Profiles
        CNN Leadership
        CNN Newsletters
        Work for CNN

Business
Watch
Listen
Live TV
Follow CNN Business

Most stock quote data provided by BATS. US market indices are shown in real time, except for the S&P 500 which is refreshed every two minutes. All times are ET. Factset: FactSet Research Systems Inc. All rights reserved. Chicago Mercantile: Certain market data is the property of Chicago Mercantile Exchange Inc. and its licensors. All rights reserved. Dow Jones: The Dow Jones branded indices are proprietary to and are calculated, distributed and marketed by DJI Opco, a subsidiary of S&P Dow Jones Indices LLC and have been licensed for use to S&P Opco, LLC and CNN. Standard & Poor’s and S&P are registered trademarks of Standard & Poor’s Financial Services LLC and Dow Jones is a registered trademark of Dow Jones Trademark Holdings LLC. All content of the Dow Jones branded indices Copyright S&P Dow Jones Indices LLC and/or its affiliates. Fair value provided by IndexArb.com. Market holidays and trading hours provided by Copp Clark Limited.
Terms of Use
Privacy Policy
Manage Cookies+
Ad Choices
Accessibility & CC
About
Newsletters
Transcripts

© 2025 Cable News Network. A Warner Bros. Discovery Company. All Rights Reserved.
CNN Sans ™ & © 2016 Cable News Network.

