
Business
Markets
Tech
Media
Calculators
Videos
Watch
Listen
Live TV

Markets
	


DOW 43,975.09 0.45%
S&P 500 6,373.45 0.25%
NASDAQ 21,385.40 0.30%

Fear & Greed Index
	


58
greed is driving the US market

Latest Market News
	


Trump’s major China gamble has paid off so far. But Xi still holds trump cards
Elon Musk threatens to sue Apple over app store ranking of his AI app
US and China agree to critical extension, preventing tariff surge on the world’s two largest economies
Stellantis US arm pleads guilty to fraud and conspiracy in diesel emissions investigation
Peter Valdes-Dapena
By Peter Valdes-Dapena, CNN Business
2 min read
Published 5:08 PM EDT, Fri June 3, 2022
Detail on the 2014 Jeep Grand Cherokee as it is introduced at the 2013 North American International Auto Show in Detroit, Michigan, January 14, 2013.
Detail on the 2014 Jeep Grand Cherokee as it is introduced at the 2013 North American International Auto Show in Detroit, Michigan, January 14, 2013.
Stan Honda/AFP/Getty Images
CNN  — 

The Michigan-based arm of the international automaker Stellantis has pleaded guilty and agreed to pay $300 million in penalties to settle an investigation into alleged cheating on emissions tests for some of its diesel-powered vehicles.

The vehicles in question are more than 100,000 diesel-powered Jeep Grand Cherokee SUVs and Ram 1500 pickups from the 2014 through 2016 model years. Jeep and Ram were, at the time, part of Fiat Chrysler Automobiles and it was FCA US, now part of Stellantis, that entered the plea deal with the US Department of Justice.

FCA US pleaded guilty to one count of conspiracy to defraud the United States, commit wire fraud, and violate the Clean Air Act, according to the Justice Department. In the plea agreement, FCA US admitted to using software in its six-cylinder diesel engines to pass stringent emissions tests even though, in real-world operation, the engines would not have met the emissions requirements. The company also made efforts to hide that fact from regulators and consumers, according to papers filed by the Justice Department.

“These regulations have been put in place to protect the health and well-being of our citizens and environment,” Luis Quesada, assistant director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation’s Criminal Investigative Division, said in a statement. “This guilty plea reflects the commitment of the FBI and our local, state, and federal partners to investigate and bring to justice those who engage in fraudulent and harmful practices.”

The plea deal comes five years after Volkswagen AG pleaded guilty to criminal charges to resolve its own emissions crisis affecting nearly 600,000 vehicles in a scandal that became known as “Dieselgate.”

Volkswagen’s deception precipitated additional scrutiny that resulted in officials on both sides of the Atlantic cracking down on automakers accused of using illegal software known as defeat devices to dupe government emissions tests.

Consumer claims related to the alleged cheating have been already been resolved, Stellantis said in a statement, and no further recalls are needed to correct the issues.

In January of 2019, FCA agreed to a settlement worth about $800 million to resolve civil claims from the Justice Department and the state of California related to the diesel emissions probe. That deal did not include any admission of guilt or wrongdoing by the automaker. As part of that deal, FCA agreed to pay $2,800 each to owners of the vehicles involved.

Reuters contributed to this report
Up next
Trump has federalized DC’s police force. Now what?
6 minute read
Shooter kills three in a Target parking lot in Austin before being captured, police say
3 minute read
A judge’s brutal rebuke of Trump’s Epstein gambit
4 minute read
Trump wanted manufacturers to diversify away from China. Now many that heeded that call face stiff new tariffs
6 minute read
Trump nominates Bureau of Labor Statistics critic as new commissioner
3 minute read
Most read
Trump has federalized DC’s police force. Now what?
Shooter kills three in a Target parking lot in Austin before being captured, police say
A judge’s brutal rebuke of Trump’s Epstein gambit
Trump wanted manufacturers to diversify away from China. Now many that heeded that call face stiff new tariffs
Trump nominates Bureau of Labor Statistics critic as new commissioner
Anas Al-Sharif became the face of the war in Gaza for millions. Then Israel killed him
Trump’s Washington, DC, crackdown is a political stunt. But it could take a much darker turn
Japan is selling top-of-the-line warships to another key US ally. What that means for the highly contested Pacific
Tropical Storm Erin in the Atlantic is expected to strengthen into the first hurricane of the season
Fast walking is a key to longevity, research shows
Related
More from CNN
Trump has federalized DC’s police force. Now what?
Shooter kills three in a Target parking lot in Austin before being captured, ...
A judge’s brutal rebuke of Trump’s Epstein gambit
CNN Business Videos
Spot robot at Hyundai car factory in Sinapore. Shot in June 2025
In this high-tech Singapore factory, robot dogs check human work 1:23
still_21848472_1175325.588_still.jpg
Kevin O’Leary calls 15% cut on US-China chip sales a ‘form of blackmail’ 2:20
Screenshot 2025-08-06 at 3.35.41 PM.png
How to get from A to B in a city where not all streets have names 2:27
<p>Maersk CEO Vincent Clerc's company reported strong results despite U.S. tariffs.</p>
Maersk raises profit outlook amid global trade war 3:06

    World
        Africa
        Americas
        Asia
        Australia
        China
        Europe
        India
        Middle East
        United Kingdom
    US Politics
        Trump
        Facts First
        CNN Polls
        2025 Elections
    Business
        Tech
        Media
        Calculators
        Videos
    Markets
        Pre-markets
        After-Hours
        Fear & Greed
        Investing
        Markets Now
        Nightcap
    Health
        Life, But Better
        Fitness
        Food
        Sleep
        Mindfulness
        Relationships
    Entertainment
        Movies
        Television
        Celebrity
    Tech
        Innovate
        Foreseeable Future
        Mission: Ahead
        Work Transformed
        Innovative Cities
    Style
        Arts
        Design
        Fashion
        Architecture
        Luxury
        Beauty
        Video
    Travel
        Destinations
        Food & Drink
        Stay
        News
        Videos
    Sports
        Football
        Tennis
        Golf
        Motorsport
        US Sports
        Olympics
        Climbing
        Esports
        Hockey
    Science
        Space
        Life
        Unearthed
    Climate
        Solutions
        Weather
    Weather
        Video
        Climate
    Ukraine-Russia War
    Israel-Hamas War
    Features
        As Equals
        Call to Earth
        Freedom Project
        Impact Your World
        Inside Africa
        CNN Heroes
    Watch
        Live TV
        CNN Fast
        Shows A-Z
        CNN10
        CNN Max
        CNN TV Schedules
    Listen
        CNN 5 Things
        Chasing Life with Dr. Sanjay Gupta
        The Assignment with Audie Cornish
        One Thing
        Tug of War
        CNN Political Briefing
        The Axe Files
        All There Is with Anderson Cooper
        All CNN Audio podcasts
    Games
        Daily Crossword
        Jumble Crossword
        Photo Shuffle
        Sudoblock
        Sudoku
        5 Things Quiz
    About CNN
        Photos
        Investigations
        CNN Profiles
        CNN Leadership
        CNN Newsletters
        Work for CNN

Business
Watch
Listen
Live TV
Follow CNN Business

Most stock quote data provided by BATS. US market indices are shown in real time, except for the S&P 500 which is refreshed every two minutes. All times are ET. Factset: FactSet Research Systems Inc. All rights reserved. Chicago Mercantile: Certain market data is the property of Chicago Mercantile Exchange Inc. and its licensors. All rights reserved. Dow Jones: The Dow Jones branded indices are proprietary to and are calculated, distributed and marketed by DJI Opco, a subsidiary of S&P Dow Jones Indices LLC and have been licensed for use to S&P Opco, LLC and CNN. Standard & Poor’s and S&P are registered trademarks of Standard & Poor’s Financial Services LLC and Dow Jones is a registered trademark of Dow Jones Trademark Holdings LLC. All content of the Dow Jones branded indices Copyright S&P Dow Jones Indices LLC and/or its affiliates. Fair value provided by IndexArb.com. Market holidays and trading hours provided by Copp Clark Limited.
Terms of Use
Privacy Policy
Manage Cookies+
Ad Choices
Accessibility & CC
About
Newsletters
Transcripts

© 2025 Cable News Network. A Warner Bros. Discovery Company. All Rights Reserved.
CNN Sans ™ & © 2016 Cable News Network.
Our use of cookies and other technologies
We, our affiliates, and our 46 partners store and access personal data, like browsing data or unique identifiers, on your device. Selecting "Allow All" enables tracking technologies to support the purposes shown under we and our partners process data to provide. Selecting "Essential Cookies Only" or withdrawing your consent will disable them. If trackers are disabled, some content and ads you see may not be as relevant to you. You can resurface this menu to change your choices or withdraw consent at any time by clicking the "Manage Cookies+" link on the bottom of the webpage. Your choices will have effect within our website and applications. For more details, refer to our Privacy Policy.
We and our partners process data to provide:

Store and/or access information on a device. Use limited data to select advertising. Use profiles to select personalised advertising. Create profiles for personalised advertising. Use profiles to select personalised content. Create profiles to personalise content. Measure advertising performance. Measure content performance. Understand audiences through statistics or combinations of data from different sources. Develop and improve services.

