archive.today
webpage capture
	Saved from	
no other snapshots from this url
	
20 Sep 2022 12:52:24 UTC
Redirected from	
no other snapshots from this url
All snapshots	from host ft.com
from host www.ft.com
WebpageScreenshot
sharedownload .zipreport bug or abuse
Accessibility help
Skip to navigation
Skip to content
Skip to footer
Open side navigation menu
Open search bar
Subscribe
Sign In
Haleon
Haleon rejects liability in Zantac cancer cases
Newly-listed consumer health group refuses indemnification requests related to heartburn drug
Packages of Zantac are displayed in a shop
Haleon does not sell Zantac in the US, but fears it could be held liable in lawsuits over the drug’s potential links to cancer has driven its share price down © Mark Lennihan/AP

    Share on twitter (opens new window)
    Share on facebook (opens new window)
    Share on linkedin (opens new window)

Judith Evans
3 hours ago
1
Print this page

Haleon said on Tuesday it had rejected requests to provision for costs related to US lawsuits over the heartburn drug Zantac, its latest pushback against a threat that has hung over the FTSE 100 consumer health company since it was spun off from GSK in July.
GSK and Pfizer, partners in the joint venture that was spun out to become Haleon, both previously sold Zantac. Haleon does not sell Zantac in the US, but fears it could be held liable in lawsuits over the drug’s potential links to cancer has driven its share price down, according to James Edwardes Jones, analyst at RBC Capital Markets.
Shares in Haleon have fallen almost 17 per cent since it was listed, trailing the 3.5 per cent drop in the FTSE 100. Its shares were up 1 per cent in morning trading on Tuesday.
The group said that it has rejected indemnification requests from GSK and Pfizer “on the basis that the scope of the indemnities set out in the joint venture agreement only covers their consumer healthcare businesses as conducted when the JV was formed in 2018,” it said.
“At that time, neither GSK nor Pfizer marketed [over the counter] Zantac in the US or Canada.”
Indemnification is a legal process of providing security against potential damages.
Zantac was pulled from the US market after a Food and Drug Administration investigation of the levels of N-nitrosodimethylamine, or NDMA, in the drug. NDMA can cause cancer when consumed in large amounts.
Potential costs linked with Zantac, together with the prospect of Pfizer and GSK disposing of their holdings in Haleon — 32 per cent and 5.4 per cent respectively — “will act as a turn-off for staples investors”, Edwardes Jones said.
Worries over Zantac have cast a shadow over Haleon’s first months of independence after it became the only listed pure-play consumer health company of significant size. The drop in the share price has left its market capitalisation at less than half the £50bn that GSK was offered for the business by Unilever late last year, before it was spun out.
Sanofi and Johnson & Johnson are also preparing to spin off their consumer health businesses.
In its first-half results, also released on Tuesday, Haleon said the return of colds and flu following the lifting of Covid-19 restrictions had boosted sales of drugs such as Theraflu, helping to push like-for-like net sales growth to 11.6 per cent in the six months to June 30.
Sales of respiratory medicines shot up 46.7 per cent in the period from a year earlier, Haleon said, as the Omicron wave of Covid-19 added to rates of mild illness. Painkillers and vitamins also sold more, with Panadol racking up growth in the “mid-20s per cent”. 
That helped push up adjusted operating profit by 21.2 per cent to £1.2bn, as the group maintained its full-year guidance for like-for-like net revenue growth of 6 to 8 per cent and a slight decrease in adjusted operating margin from last year’s 22.8 per cent.









Copyright The Financial Times Limited 2022. All rights reserved.
Reuse this content (opens in new window)(opens a new window) CommentsJump to comments section
Latest on Haleon

    LexPharmaceuticals sector
    GSK/Sanofi: Zantac tussle may be long and painful, precedents show Premium content
    LexHaleon
    Haleon/Reckitt Benckiser: Covid offers cold cure makers a long-lasting boost Premium content
    Haleon
    Debut of GSK consumer-health spin-off Haleon disappoints
    GSK PLC
    GSK investor support for spin-off vindicates rejection of Unilever bid, says chief
    Pharmaceuticals sector
    Pfizer to exit GSK consumer health joint venture after London listing
    LexGSK PLC
    GSK: consumer demerger is the right prescription for UK drugs giant Premium content
    Cat Rutter Pooley
    GSK and Haleon will need time to thrive apart

Comment guidelines
Please keep comments respectful. Use plain English for our global readership and avoid using phrasing that could be misinterpreted as offensive. By commenting, you agree to abide by our community guidelines and these terms and conditions. We encourage you to report inappropriate comments.

Post a comment

Sort by
expand_more
A bit of welcome news, and an uptick in the depressed share price and uptick of 3.85% as I type.
Follow the topics in this article

    Health

Pharmaceuticals sector
Haleon
GSK PLC
Judith Evans
Useful links
Support
View Site Tips
Help Centre
Contact Us
About Us
Accessibility
myFT Tour
Careers
Legal & Privacy
Terms & Conditions
Privacy Policy
Cookies
Copyright
Slavery Statement & Policies
Services
Share News Tips Securely
Individual Subscriptions
Group Subscriptions
Republishing
Executive Job Search
Advertise with the FT
Follow the FT on Twitter
FT Channels
Secondary Schools
Tools
Portfolio
Today's Newspaper (ePaper)
Alerts Hub
Business School Rankings
Enterprise Tools
News feed
Newsletters
Currency Converter
Community & Events
FT Community
FT Live
FT Forums
FT Board Director
Board Director Programme
More from the FT Group
Markets data delayed by at least 15 minutes. © THE FINANCIAL TIMES LTD 2022. FT and ‘Financial Times’ are trademarks of The Financial Times Ltd.
The Financial Times and its journalism are subject to a self-regulation regime under the FT Editorial Code of Practice.
Financial Times
International Edition
Subscribe for full access
Search the FT

    Switch to UK Edition

    Top sections
    Home
    World

US

Companies

Tech
Markets

Climate
Opinion

Work & Careers

Life & Arts

Personal Finance

HTSI
Special Reports
FT recommends
Lex
Alphaville
Lunch with the FT
FT Globetrotter
#techAsia
Moral Money
FTfm
Newsletters
Video
Podcasts
News feed
FT Community

    myFT
    Portfolio
    Today's Newspaper (ePaper)
    Crossword
    Our Apps

    Help Centre
    Subscribe
    Sign In

0%
 
10%
 
20%
 
30%
 
40%
 
50%
 
60%
 
70%
 
80%
 
90%
 
100%

