
Skip to content
Gizmodo
Search

    Home
    Latest
    Tech
    Reviews
    Science
    io9
    AI
    Video
    Deals

Tech News
Accenture Employees Demand Their Company Break Ties With U.S. Border Patrol 
By Avery Ellis Published November 15, 2018 | Comments (0)
𝕏

Last year, consulting megafirm Accenture inked a nearly $300 million contract with Customs and Border Protection to help the agency recruit around 7,500 staffers over a period of five years. The tech industry’s complicity with CBP and Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE)—agencies widely criticized as helping enact President Trump’s nativist agenda—has led to widespread employee backlash, and now it’s Accenture’s turn, according to a petition provided to Gizmodo.

“Helping increase CPB’s ability to carry out torture and human rights abuse is unethical and immoral,” the petition reads. “It is also in clear violation of Accenture’s code of ethics, which commit ‘to build a more equal and inclusive society’ and to improve ‘millions of lives around the world, now and for the future.’” The petition’s existence was first reported by Bloomberg this morning, at which time it had only a few dozen signatories.

Similar letters of outrage have circulated within Amazon, Salesforce, Microsoft, and Google. At Google, specifically, concerted employee action led to the company choosing not to renew a Pentagon contract for an artificial intelligence system meant to analyze image captured by military drones, and an end to forced arbitration in sexual harassment cases and an improved misconduct reporting process. Amazon, on the other hand, took months to offer a limp response to employee complaints about the company’s relationship with ICE and other law enforcement agencies. It’s not yet clear which model Accenture will hew closer to in acting on this internal criticism.

“We welcome the feedback from our people and are aware of the posting on our internal blog site,” Stacy Jones, Accenture’s Managing Director of Corporate Marketing and Media Relations, told Gizmodo in an emailed statement. “An important part of our culture is that we encourage all our people to have a dialogue about issues that arise in the workplace and beyond.”

Read the full letter below:

    To our leadership:

    We ask that Accenture and Accenture Federal Services cancel all contracts with Customs and Border Protection (CBP). Specifically, we ask you to cancel the $297m contract our company has with CBP to hire more CBP officers. Trump’s executive order on Border Security and Immigration Enforcement Improvements called for hiring 7,500 new Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) agents. Accenture is currently providing CPB with the recruiting and processing capabilities necessary to fulfill this aggressive hiring agenda, which in turn gives CBP and ICE capacity to expand their inhumane policies. These include the internment of thousands of immigrant children, and the grave mistreatment of immigrant families. As we write, 13,000 children are currently detained and separated from their families. A pregnant woman was shackled, resulting in a miscarriage. Parents have been deported without their children, and adoption proceedings which will result in detained children being permanently separated from their families are being proposed, and long term mental trauma for the thousands of people directly impacted by CBP officers.

    In September a CBP officer admitted killing 4 women in Laredo, Texas. These atrocious murders are not isolated incidents. According to the Southern Border Communities Coalition, border agents have killed 81 people since 2010. Border patrol and ICE agents have terrorized immigrant communities for decades.

    Amnesty International has condemned CBP’s actions as “nothing short of torture” and in “flagrant violation of human rights” and “US obligations under refugee law.” Helping increase CPB’s ability to carry out torture and human rights abuse is unethical and immoral. It is also in clear violation of Accenture’s code of ethics, which commit “to build a more equal and inclusive society” and to improve “millions of lives around the world, now and for the future.” The technology we provide is sold in the name of efficiency, but all we see is technology supercharging inhumane and cruel policies.

    Others have recognized the urgency of this situation, and taken action. In July, McKinsey cut ties with ICE, refusing to support CBP’s inhumane policies.

    We cannot support CBP while it is engaged in these immoral and illegal activities. Our work directly strengthens CBP’s capacity to execute these policies. We ask that Accenture follow McKinsey’s lead, that it realize that any business with CBP at this time amounts to complicity. We joined Accenture because we want to work for a company that does good in the world, a company that helps vulnerable immigrants, not facilitates putting them into cages.

    The moment to vocally reject these illegal and immoral actions is now. This begins with cancelling our contract with CBP and affirming our place on the right side of history.

Updated with statement from Accenture
Daily Newsletter

Get the best tech, science, and culture news in your inbox daily.

News from the future, delivered to your present.

Please select your desired newsletters and submit your email to upgrade your inbox.
You May Also Like

    Photo: LIONEL CIRONNEAU
    Tech News
    Jellyfish Overpower Nuclear Power Plant in Show of Force From Mother Nature

    Not so powerful now, huh?
    By AJ Dellinger Published August 11, 2025
    Photo: AP
    Tech News
    The Rise of a New AI Superpower

    With explosive growth and massive government backing, Abu Dhabi is making a serious play for the AI crown. But in a world dominated by a handful of tech capitals, can it truly compete?
    By Riley Gutiérrez McDermid Published August 11, 2025
    Protest against Elon Musk and DOGE cuts to government funding in front of a Tesla showroom in NYC.
    Tech News
    Musk Moves to Bring Tesla Power to U.K. As Car Sales Stumble

    With its car business in a nosedive, the company is making a dramatic pivot to become the UK's next big power company. The UK's energy sector generates over $200 billion a year and a slice of that could be exactly what Musk is looking to use to shore up Tesla.
    By Riley Gutiérrez McDermid Published August 11, 2025
    CEO of OpenAI Sam Altman speaks to members of the media as he arrives at the Sun Valley lodge for the Allen & Company Sun Valley Conference on July 8, 2025 in Sun Valley, Idaho.
    Tech News
    It Took Just 24 Hours of Complaints for OpenAI to Start Bringing Back Its Old Model

    The GPT-5 rollout has been a disaster.
    By Matt Novak Published August 8, 2025
    Superman James Gunn Set 2
    io9Movies
    We Finally Have a New Clue About James Gunn’s Next DC Movie

    Gunn said Superman is in his movie, but it's not a sequel to 'Superman'. Now, his boss offers a new detail.
    By Germain Lussier Published August 7, 2025
    Photo: Tada Images
    Tech News
    Peloton Is Cutting Jobs and Shifting Focus to Members’ ‘Entire Wellness Journey’

    Peloton CEO Peter Stern thinks new wellness and AI features can save the company.
    By Bruce Gil Published August 7, 2025

Latest news
Elon Musk Says Apple Is Rigging the App Store for ChatGPT
8/11/2025, 11:07 pm
Photo: Mandel Ngan
Cate Blanchett Doesn’t Know If Her ‘Squid Game’ Cameo Will Lead to More (But She’d Like it to)
8/11/2025, 8:30 pm
Cate Blanchett Netflix
Elon Musk Can’t Control His AI
8/11/2025, 8:23 pm
Why ‘One Piece’ Fans Are Hyped for Nico Robin’s Netflix Debut
8/11/2025, 7:40 pm
One Piece Nico Robin Toei Animation
Latest Reviews
CMF Phone 2 Pro Review: A Budget Phone With More Camera Than You Bargained For
8/11/2025, 6:30 am
CMF by Nothing Phone 2 Pro review
This Monstrosity Gives Your Laptop Three Massive Monitors, but You’ll Hate Looking at It
8/10/2025, 6:00 am
Aura Triple Aero Pro Max triple display monitor review
The 8BitDo Pro 3 Is So Dang Customizable, You’ll Never Need Another Controller
8/8/2025, 11:00 am
8BitDo Pro 3 controller review
OnePlus Buds 4 vs. Nothing Ear: Which Pair of Wireless Earbuds Wins?
8/8/2025, 6:00 am
OnePlus Buds 4 vs. Nothing Ear Wireless Earbuds Comparison Review

    𝕏 

    Sitemap Edición ES Ausgabe DE Edição PT Edition FR Accessibility Privacy Policy Terms of Use Advertising Reprints & Permissions Your Privacy Choices Product reviews 

We may earn a commission when you buy through links on our sites.
©2025 GIZMODO USA LLC. All rights reserved.

Mode

Follow us

    𝕏

Mode

Follow us

    𝕏


