
Stay up to date with notifications from The Independent

Notifications can be managed in browser preferences.
Jump to content
UK EditionChange
US Edition
Asia Edition
Edición en Español
Subscribe now
Log in / Register
Independent
Bulletin
Investing
	
	

News
Sport
Voices
Culture
Lifestyle
IndyBest
Deals

    Travel

More

Liveupdated
3 minutes ago
SportFootball
Transfer news live: Liverpool given Isak boost, Spurs target Eze, Man Utd learn Donnarumma fee

Follow all the latest transfer rumours, gossip and signings
Miguel Delaney
Chief Football Writer
,
Richard Jolly
,
Michael Jones
Tuesday 12 August 2025 09:57 BST
55Comments
Video Player Placeholder
'Everything in play' over Isak future - Howe

Just a few days to go until the start of the new Premier League season and club’s are looking to finalise any deals for new signings ahead of their campaigns beginning.

Liverpool are still pursuing Alexander Isak having sold Darwin Nunez to Al Hilal for £46.3m, which should open up funds for a bid but Newcastle have, so far, been resolute in their desire to keep the Swedish striker. The Magpies do not wish to sell, but the Reds may be encouraged by Isak’s insistence that his Newcastle career is over, with it reported that he will not wish to reintegrate with the side, even if he stays beyond the deadline. Should he force Newcastle’s hand over a sale, Liverpool will be the key beneficiaries.

Manchester United, meanhwhile, have been handed a huge boost in their pursuit of Gianluigi Donnarumma, with the Italian shot-stopper now looking certain to leave PSG off the back of a stellar 2024/25 campaign. He was entirely left out of their squad to face Tottenham in the Super Cup, with Luis Enrique opting for new signing Lucas Chevalier between the sticks. It comes after United unveiled their new signing Benjamin Sesko to supporters at Old Trafford on Saturday, completing their front line overhaul this summer with Bryan Mbeumo and Matheus Cunha set to feature in a new-look front three for Ruben Amorim.

Spurs are also preparing to bolster their own forward line further by signing Crystal Palace’s Eberechi Eze. Palace want a fee in excess of £60m and an official offer could soon go in though Palace’s Community Shield win over Liverpool may now make a deal harder to negotiate. Thomas Frank’s side are in need of a creator following the long-term injury to James Maddison and are also in talks for Manchester City’s Savinho.

All the latest updates, rumours and done deals will be covered in the blog below:
Recommended

    The big questions that hang over Liverpool’s forced ‘rebuild’The big questions that hang over Liverpool’s forced ‘rebuild’
    The winners and losers from Benjamin Sesko’s transfer to Manchester UnitedThe winners and losers from Benjamin Sesko’s transfer to Manchester United
    Eddie Howe admits he won’t have final say on Alexander Isak future at NewcastleEddie Howe admits he won’t have final say on Alexander Isak future at Newcastle

Transfer news live

    Liverpool are still chasing Alexander Isak but Newcastle are intent to keep striker
    Manchester United target PSG goalkeeper Gianluigi Donnarumma
    Eberechi Eze is a top target for Arsenal but face competition from Spurs
    Tottenham make shock move for Manchester City’s Savinho
    Chelsea have emerged as suitors for Alejandro Garancho

3 minutes ago
Mark Chapman to host first Match of the Day without Gary Lineker

Mark Chapman will present the BBC's first Match of the Day Saturday highlights programme this weekend.

Chapman is part of a three-person presenting line-up alongside Kelly Cates and Gabby Logan, who will work on rotation this season following the departure of former lead presenter Gary Lineker.

Chapman will be the first of the trio to host the flagship Saturday night show.
Mark Chapman to host first Match of the Day without Gary Lineker
Chapman will be the first of a three-person presenting line-up to replace Lineker
Will Castle12 August 2025 09:57
16 minutes ago
The delicate balancing act Arne Slot must master to maintain Liverpool’s success

Spending can bring its own problems. Some footballers can be weighed down by their price tags, though there were precious few signs of that when the £100m signing Florian Wirtz found the £69m buy Hugo Ekitike to score four minutes into their Liverpool bows. But some teams can be unbalanced by expenditure.

Arne Slot assessed a first meaningful match after Liverpool gave their defence a £75m makeover and concluded: “We need to be better defensively.” It wasn’t an attempt to make the Community Shield an indictment of Jeremie Frimpong and Milos Kerkez, his deluxe pair of new full-backs. Rather, it was a broader view.

It may be a temporary glitch, and Slot is determined to ensure it is, but he nevertheless considered the evidence of pre-season friendlies as well. It was not merely the two goals Crystal Palace scored at Wembley, their 14 shots, their xG of 2.12 or some fine saves by Alisson.
The delicate balancing act Arne Slot must master to maintain Liverpool’s success
The Reds’ big spending this summer threatens to upset their stability with more emphasis on the forward areas despite growing defensive frailties
Richard Jolly12 August 2025 09:44
28 minutes ago
Man Utd new boy Benjamin Sesko hoping to emulate his idol Zlatan Ibrahimovic

Manchester United’s latest signing Benjamin Sesko is hoping to emulate his idol Zlatan Ibrahimovic in the club’s famous shirt.

Sesko said: “Since I’ve been small I’ve been watching him. Every single YouTube video that I can find because he’s amazing for me.

“We don’t have the same character, but I like to see the way he plays, the way he enjoys football, how everything works.

“It has been my dream to one day meet him, that would be great, so in general, he’s my idol.

“We have a different playing style, but if there is any situation, I try to do the same as he did.”
Man Utd new boy Benjamin Sesko hoping to emulate his idol Zlatan Ibrahimovic
Slovenia international Sesko completed his move to Old Trafford from RB Leipzig at the weekend in a deal worth up to £73.7million.
Will Castle12 August 2025 09:32
40 minutes ago
Robert Lewandowski reveals how close he was to joining Man United

Robert Lewandowski has revealed how close he was to joining Manchester United while at Borussia Dortmund.

"To Manchester United I decided and said yes," he told BBC Sport. "I wanted to join Manchester United, to see Alex Ferguson.

"They could not sell me because they knew if I stayed they could earn more money, and that I could wait maybe one or two more years.

"But it is true that I said yes to Manchester United."
(AP)
Will Castle12 August 2025 09:20
51 minutes ago
DONE DEAL! PSG sign Bournemouth's Illia Zabaryi

PSG have completed the signing of Illia Zabarnyi from Bournemouth.

The highly-rated defender moves for £57m and brings Bournemouth’s defensive sales this season to £147m.
Will Castle12 August 2025 09:09
53 minutes ago
Manchester United fan group postpones protest against Sir Jim Ratcliffe

A Manchester United supporters’ group has postponed a demonstration against the club’s ownership planned for the day of their opening game of the Premier League season.

The 1958 had organised a protest march to Old Trafford on August 17, ahead of United’s clash with Arsenal, with banners referring to minority owner Sir Jim Ratcliffe.

The 1958 has overseen numerous demonstrations in recent years, principally aimed at unpopular majority shareholders the Glazers, but frustration has now spread to Ratcliffe.
Manchester United fan group postpones protest against Sir Jim Ratcliffe
The 1958 had organised a march on ahead of United’s clash with Arsenal on the opening day of the season
Will Castle12 August 2025 09:07
1 hour ago
Chelsea progressing with Alejandro Garnacho deal

Chelsea have stepped up talks to strike a deal for Alejandro Garnacho.

Fabrizio Romano says club-to-club discussions with Man United are now well underway, with Garnacho only wanting Chelsea.

Personal terms are agreed and the two clubs are in negotiation over fee. Garnacho is expected to become a Chelsea player this summer.
Garnacho has made clear his desire to leave United, as well as a preference for staying in the Premier League
Garnacho has made clear his desire to leave United, as well as a preference for staying in the Premier League (Getty Images)
Will Castle12 August 2025 08:55
1 hour ago
Man City eyeing up Rodrygo

Manchester City are considering a move sensational move for Real Madrid forward Rodrygo, according to Fabrizio Romano.

He is valued at around £87m and has also attracted reported interest from the likes of Arsenal and Liverpool this summer.
Will Castle12 August 2025 08:42
1 hour ago
Nottingham Forest closing in on James McAtee

Nottingham Forest are close to agreeing a deal for James McAtee, according to The Athletic.

A verbal agreement could be reached in the next 24 hours.
(Getty Images)
Will Castle12 August 2025 08:30
1 hour ago
Alexander Isak ready to force Liverpool move?

Alexander Isak is adamant he will not play for Newcastle again, according to The Athletic.

This is regardless of whether he stays or leaves in this transfer window, viewing his Magpies career as over with no wish to reintegrate.

He wants a move to Liverpool but the club insist he is not for sale.
(Owen Humphreys/PA Wire)
Will Castle12 August 2025 08:18
Newer
1 / 11
Older
More abouttransfer newsArsenalManchester UnitedChelsea FCAlexander IsakPremier LeagueEberechi EzeDarwin NunezBenjamin SeskoRodrygoNewcastle UnitedLiverpool FCLiverpoolSpursNewcastleGianluigi DonnarummaManchester CityJames MaddisonBryan Mbeumo
Join our commenting forum

Join thought-provoking conversations, follow other Independent readers and see their replies
55Comments
Promoted stories
“It Runs While I Sleep” – The AI Side Hustle Sweeping United KingdomDiscover a new AI-powered trick that makes earning money online easier than ever—now available to everyone.TApp | Sponsored
Barking And Dagenham Citizens Are Jumping On This Rare OpportunityBlog On The Spot | Sponsored
Audiologists Furious About New £80 Device That Makes Hearing Crystal Clear AgainTry it nowTop Trending News Today | Sponsored
Brought to you by
Sponsored
Electricians agree: Heat pumps are only worthwhile if your house...Eco UK |
Sponsored
The entire store is on sale! Visit the website and secure the best prices.Global Offer | Sponsored
I am closing my jewellery shop forever...Last chance to buy handcrafted jewellery made of silver, gold, diamonds and other beautiful materials as we say goodbye to craftsmanship.Wendy Clarke | Sponsored
Brought to you by
Sponsored
Barking And Dagenham: £19.99 Will-Writing ServiceDon't be a no-will nightmare! Limited-Time Offer for Over 50's!Legacy Wills & Estate Planning | Sponsored
Study Reveals The Best Protein For Ageing MusclesMuscle Health Secrets | Sponsored
Stunning 2-Bed Senior Houses: Take A Peek Inside!TrueSearches | Search Ads | Sponsored
newsRichard Madeley clashes with Rebecca Loos over David Beckham question on GMB
cultureBBC announces ‘difficult decision’ to axe Sara Cox’s chat show
Would you like to know more?
Sponsored
Top Gut Doctors: This 5-Second Trick Gets Your Bowels Emptied Every MorningGut Health Finding | Sponsored
How a protest boycott of Elon Musk’s Tesla business is starting to hit homeHow a protest boycott of Elon Musk’s Tesla business is starting to bite and other buying blackouts could hurt Trump tooPromoted by Independent Premium | Sponsored
The Surprising Kindle Hack 15 Million Readers Already Know AboutLearn the secret to saving on bestselling ebooksBookBub | Sponsored
This may be of interest to you!
Sponsored
Plastic Surgeon Reveals The 1 Thing Every Woman Should Be Using Instead Of MoisturiserNew Skin Discovery | Sponsored
sportFans call to ‘stop this madness’ over controversial game
home newsNicola Sturgeon says rapist Isla Bryson is a ‘biological male’
I'm retiring! Last chance to enjoy 80% off all my jewelry!Because I'm retiring, I'm selling my entire handmade jewelry collection at a big discount. Hurry before it all sells out!Barbara Smith | Sponsored
You might be interested in the content above
Sponsored
home newsChannel migrants reaching 50,000 under Labour ‘unacceptable’ – ex-home secretary
Most popular

    The 6 signs of pancreatic cancer to never ignore
    The 6 signs of pancreatic cancer to never ignore
    Trump condemned over National Guard deployment in DC: Live updates
    Trump condemned over National Guard deployment in DC: Live updates
    Trump appears to forget Alaska is in US as he frets over facing Putin
    Trump appears to forget Alaska is in US as he frets over facing Putin
    Thousands with prostate cancer facing unnecessary treatment - experts
    Thousands with prostate cancer facing unnecessary treatment - experts
    Two blind women only people on flight after other passengers rebooked
    Two blind women only people on flight after other passengers rebooked

Popular videos

    Police investigating vigilante who flung bike in front of moving car

Police investigating vigilante who flung bike in front of moving car
Israeli Dancing with the Stars viral dance mimics Trump’s rally moves
Israeli Dancing with the Stars viral dance mimics Trump’s rally moves
Why are women affected more by heatwaves? A doctor explains

    Why are women affected more by heatwaves? A doctor explains

Bulletin

    Another airline announces phone power bank ban
    Another airline announces phone power bank ban
    New species flock to UK seas as waters warm
    New species flock to UK seas as waters warm
    NHS to open up thousands of roles for new graduates
    NHS to open up thousands of roles for new graduates
    BBC announces ‘difficult decision’ to axe Sara Cox’s chat show
    BBC announces ‘difficult decision’ to axe Sara Cox’s chat show
    Home Office releases video showing foreign criminals being deported
    Home Office releases video showing foreign criminals being deported

by Taboola
Promoted Links
If You Were Born Between 1945-1975 You Could Be Eligible For ThisBritish Seniors
Barking And Dagenham: If You Were Born Between 1940-1975 You Could Be Eligible For This Life CoverReassured
TV providers are furious: this gadget gives you access to all channelsTechno Mag
One simple trick for dealing with hypertensionNEWSCASA
The bestselling summer sandal of 2025 is finally backHikeCare
This Tiny Device Quietly Helps Users Monitor Their HeartsTech Products Guide
Read Next
Ad: Let Hims help you regrow your hair
Ad: Escape the ordinary: Enter to win a £250 TUI gift card towards your next getaway
Ad: Ready to DIY your dream manicure? Win 1 of 4 £80 gift cards from 14 Day Mani
Ad: Feel your music: Bose QuietComfort Ultra Earbuds (2nd Gen) have arrived at Currys
Ad: Enhance your summer wellness with iHerb’s range of trusted vitamins and supplements

    Get in touch
        Contact us

    Our Products
        Subscribe
        Register
        Newsletters
        Donate
        Today’s Edition
        Install our app
        Archive
    Other publications
        International editions
        Independent en Español
        Independent Arabia
        Independent Turkish
        Independent Persian
        Independent Urdu
        The Standard
    Extras
        Puzzles
        All topics
        Betting offers
        Latest deals
        Competitions and offers
        Independent Advertising
        Independent Ignite
        Syndication
        Working at The Independent
    Legal
        Code of conduct and complaints
        Contributors
        Cookie policy
        Donations Terms & Conditions
        Privacy policy
        Privacy settings
        User policies
        Modern Slavery Statement


