
Stay up to date with notifications from The Independent

Notifications can be managed in browser preferences.
Jump to content
UK EditionChange
US Edition
Asia Edition
Edición en Español
Subscribe now
Log in / Register
Independent
Bulletin
Investing
	
	

News
Sport
Voices
Culture
Lifestyle
IndyBest
Deals

    Travel

More

NewsMedia
Comment is free, correct? Well, only up to a point ...
In an age when every other person seems to be a blogger, the value of high-quality commentary to established outlets is having an impact that is economic as well as journalistic. James Geary reports
Monday 17 July 2006 00:00 BST
Comments
Breaking News
For free real time breaking news alerts sent straight to your inbox sign up to our breaking news emails
Email
*

It's almost like a football signing," says Michael Wolsey, comment editor for The Irish Independent in Dublin. "We're expecting reprisals." He's referring to his paper's recent poaching of a top columnist from The Irish Times, and his expectation that the Times will start raiding the Independent's commentators in return. Bidding wars for comment and opinion writers are nothing new. But as newspapers battle for readership, the strategy seems to be the paper with the best columnists wins. Is that how comment editors see things, too?

Wolsey cites the usual suspects - the web, TV, radio, mobile technology - for pushing papers away from straightforward news and more toward opinion. "We're not instant reporters of news any more," he says. "Comment is replacing that." For Wolsey, though, the best commentators need to be more than simply provocative and entertaining. "They must also bring a depth of knowledge and expertise to their subject," he says. "People will be willing to pay for the wisdom of commentators like that."

Whether people will pay for their favourite columnists is still an open question. Last autumn, The New York Times launched TimesSelect, an online service that offered access to the paper's columnists and some other web-only extras for $7.95 a month. As of the beginning of June, TimesSelect had just over 480,000 subscribers, more than 60 per cent of whom received the service for free along with their subscription to the print version of the newspaper.

The Guardian has pursued a different strategy. Its recently launched Comment Is Free site is, well, free and includes exclusive online contributions from its opinion writers. The New York Times is hoping the additional revenue will make up for the loss of influence that's sure to result from the invisibility of its top op-ed writers to the overwhelming majority of web readers. The Guardian is doing the reverse: it's betting that buzz from the Comment Is Free site will eventually rub off financially on the newspaper proper. What both strategies have in common is this: comment is the draw.

"A good commentator is worth their weight in gold," says Barbara Gunnell, comment editor for The Observer. "They bring fantastic experience to whatever subject they are writing about. Whether you agree with them or not, you know they are not going to let you down on the facts. It's like watching a football match on television. You already know the score, but you still can't wait to read what the commentators have to say about it the next day. It's the same with politics."

And with business. The Financial Times faces the same challenges as other papers - business news has become just as much a commodity as regular news, if not more so - but its status as one of the must-reads for the financial sector gives it a competitive advantage. According to Gwen Robinson, the FT's comment editor, commentators are key to maintaining that edge. "There's probably not another Martin Wolf or Lucy Kellaway in the world," she says. "People turn to Wolf for an interpretation of economics they can trust, and to Kellaway for a laugh and to get a straight take on management issues. They give readers something they can't get anywhere else."

But is incisive comment enough to keep readers informed and engaged? Michael Oreskes, executive editor of the International Herald Tribune in Paris, argues that "analytic journalism" is the corollary of comment. "Commentary has become an increasingly important part of the package," Oreskes says. "The reason for this is not that audiences crave opinion as such; it is because in a world awash in information, readers are searching for meaning. Real value lies in giving readers the facts plus the history, background and context to help them make sense of those facts. Opinion pieces are one way to do this. But just as important are pieces of analysis, judgement and even well-written news stories that don't tell readers what to think but allow them to see the world for themselves."

Arthur Miller once described a good newspaper as "a nation talking to itself". Thanks to the web, the whole world is talking to itself now, with commentators - on blogs and through established news organisations - raising some of the most distinctive voices. The conversation looks set to get a lot more interesting.

This article appears in the latest edition of 'e.i.', the editorial intelligence journal on media comment ( www.editorialintelligence.com). James Geary is editorial analyst at e.i., a former editor of 'Time' magazine (Europe) and author of 'We Are What We Think', a history of the aphorism
Join our commenting forum

Join thought-provoking conversations, follow other Independent readers and see their replies
Comments
Promoted stories
Say Goodbye to Long Hospital Queues with Private Medical Insurance At £23 Per MonthGet a Free Quote for Private Medical Insurance with Private Medical PlansPrivate Medical Plans | Sponsored
Audiologists Furious About New £80 Device That Makes Hearing Crystal Clear AgainTry it nowTop Trending News Today | Sponsored
Barking And Dagenham Citizens Are Jumping On This Rare OpportunityBlog On The Spot | Sponsored
Would you like to know more?
Sponsored
Over 50? This Ring Can Detect Hidden Heart ThreatsTech Products Guide | Sponsored
Barking And Dagenham: £19.99 Will-Writing ServiceDon't be a no-will nightmare! Limited-Time Offer for Over 50's!Legacy Wills & Estate Planning | Sponsored
This might be relevant for you
Sponsored
Plastic Surgeon Reveals The 1 Thing Every Woman Should Be Using Instead Of MoisturiserNew Skin Discovery | Sponsored
Stunning 2-Bed Senior Houses: Take A Peek Inside!TrueSearches | Search Ads | Sponsored
Building Muscle After 50 Comes Down To ThisMuscle Health Secrets | Sponsored
newsRichard Madeley clashes with Rebecca Loos over David Beckham question on GMB
cultureBBC announces ‘difficult decision’ to axe Sara Cox’s chat show
You might be interested in the content above
Sponsored
Barking And Dagenham: If You Were Born Between 1940-1975 You Could Be Eligible For This Life CoverSimply answer a few questions to apply for your free quoteReassured | Sponsored
Richard Osman’s remarks say a lot about the UK’s small-minded celebrity cultureA clip of the presenter has prompted some ridicule on social media. But his take on the UK’s blinkered relationship with celebrity is worth unpacking, writes Louis ChiltonPromoted by Independent Premium | Sponsored
Plastic Surgeon: Stop Using Expensive Cream, Use This Household Item Instead!Do You Know The Main Cause Of Wrinkles And Saggy Skin? (And It’s Not Ageing!)youthfulskin-gt.com | Sponsored
Want to know more? click here
Sponsored
I'm retiring! Last chance to enjoy 80% off all my jewelry!Because I'm retiring, I'm selling my entire handmade jewelry collection at a big discount. Hurry before it all sells out!Barbara Smith | Sponsored
lifestyleSophie Turner hits back after being accused of ‘forgetting’ children
newsKelly Clarkson’s ex-husband Brandon Blackstock’s cause of death revealed
This Is The Worst Enemy of Arthritis: Throw Out This 1 Food ImmediatelyNutritional Sciences Ltd | Sponsored
Would you like to know more?
Sponsored
home newsNicola Sturgeon says rapist Isla Bryson is a ‘biological male’
Most popular

    The 6 signs of pancreatic cancer to never ignore
    The 6 signs of pancreatic cancer to never ignore
    Trump says he’ll take control of DC police - live updates
    Trump says he’ll take control of DC police - live updates
    JD Vance’s holiday brings ‘circus’ to sleepy Cotswolds village
    JD Vance’s holiday brings ‘circus’ to sleepy Cotswolds village
    Trump appears to forget Alaska is in US as he frets over facing Putin
    Trump appears to forget Alaska is in US as he frets over facing Putin
    US teen pilot stranded in Antarctica after landing without permission
    US teen pilot stranded in Antarctica after landing without permission

Popular videos

    Police investigating vigilante who flung bike in front of moving car

Police investigating vigilante who flung bike in front of moving car
Israeli Dancing with the Stars viral dance mimics Trump’s rally moves
Israeli Dancing with the Stars viral dance mimics Trump’s rally moves
Princess Andre says she feared for her life during carjacking

    Princess Andre says she feared for her life during carjacking

Indy100 Trending

    Annual Perseid meteor shower to reach dazzling peak on Tuesday night
    Annual Perseid meteor shower to reach dazzling peak on Tuesday night
    Echoes of the End: How a tiny Icelandic studio made one of the year's hottest indie games
    Echoes of the End: How a tiny Icelandic studio made one of the year's hottest indie games
    Mafia: The Old Country is a throwback with one perfect modern feature
    Mafia: The Old Country is a throwback with one perfect modern feature
    What happened to Elon Musk's America Party? It's been a month and we're still waiting
    What happened to Elon Musk's America Party? It's been a month and we're still waiting
    Claire's Accessories' downfall is an indicator of an even sadder problem
    Claire's Accessories' downfall is an indicator of an even sadder problem

by Taboola
Promoted Links
“It Runs While I Sleep” – The AI Side Hustle Sweeping United KingdomTApp
The entire store is on sale! Visit the website and secure the best prices.Global Offer
If You Were Born Between 1945-1975 You Could Be Eligible For ThisBritish Seniors
The bestselling summer sandal of 2025 is finally backHikeCare
One simple trick for dealing with hypertensionNEWSCASA
I am closing my jewellery shop forever...Wendy Clarke
Read Next
Ad: Let Hims help you regrow your hair
Ad: Feel your music: Bose QuietComfort Ultra Earbuds (2nd Gen) have arrived at Currys
Ad: Ready to DIY your dream manicure? Win 1 of 4 £80 gift cards from 14 Day Mani
Ad: Escape the ordinary: Enter to win a £250 TUI gift card towards your next getaway
Ad: Enhance your summer wellness with iHerb’s range of trusted vitamins and supplements

    Get in touch
        Contact us

    Our Products
        Subscribe
        Register
        Newsletters
        Donate
        Today’s Edition
        Install our app
        Archive
    Other publications
        International editions
        Independent en Español
        Independent Arabia
        Independent Turkish
        Independent Persian
        Independent Urdu
        The Standard
    Extras
        Puzzles
        All topics
        Betting offers
        Latest deals
        Competitions and offers
        Independent Advertising
        Independent Ignite
        Syndication
        Working at The Independent
    Legal
        Code of conduct and complaints
        Contributors
        Cookie policy
        Donations Terms & Conditions
        Privacy policy
        Privacy settings
        User policies
        Modern Slavery Statement


