
Organisations That Matter
Organisations That Matter
Search
Skip to content

    Home About
        About Gary
        About Organisations That Matter: Transforming Businesses into Purpose-Driven Powerhouses
        Values
    Services
        Business
        Coaching Options
        OTM Service Strategy®
        OTM Strategic Conversations®
        Schools
        Universities
    Products
        All Products
        Create More Success Mentoring
        Mastery Business Book Series
        10X Business Coaches DownUnder Products
        10X DownUnder Full Webinar Series
        Yes For Success – AUDIOBOOK
        New Book Out Now! “Yes For Success: How to Achieve Life Harmony and Fulfillment”
        Beyond Being Good Video Series
        Disruption Leadership Matters
        Energy For Success – Seven steps for generating the energy you need for success eBook
        What Really Matters For Young Professionals! How to master 15 practices to accelerate your career eBook
        Yes For Success Online Course
    Articles Podcast Contact Us 

Communication, Conversations That Matter, Dialogue, effective communication
7-Eleven Scandal an Ethical Failure of Leadership
1 September 2015 Gary Ryan	

The ABC Four Corners and Fairfax joint investigation into the systematic wage rorting and exploitation of employees within 7-Eleven’s Australian franchised stores is an example of an ethical failure of leadership.

Gary RyanThe investigation uncovered widespread evidence of staff being underpaid and ‘forced’ to work long hours. Many of those staff were international students who’s visas only allow them to work 20 hours per work. It appears that many of those students were effectively blackmailed by their Franchisee that if they complained to Fair Work Australia about being underpaid, they would be ‘dobbed in’ to the authorities for breaking their visa regulations and therefore risk being deported.

The evidence produced by Four Corners and Fairfax indicated that these systemic issues have been going on for at least six years, which has included several investigations and findings by Fair Work Australia. Yet the behaviour has continued.

7-Eleven Australia has attempted to distance itself from the problem suggesting that the issue has been caused by a small number of Franchisees. The ABC Four Corners and Fairfax story argues that the problem is not limited to a small number of Franchisees. The story also highlights the plight of the Franchisees, many of whom are people whom have migrated to Australia. In simple terms, the joint investigation by ABC Four Corners and Fairfax suggest that the franchise business model is not one that can work in Australia if the Franchisees pay the wages they are meant to pay according to Australian Law.

7-Eleven Australian stores are generally open seven days per week, 24 hours per day. Given penalty rates etc., the wage costs of operating such a store would be significant. According to the report, Franchisee financial reports are supplied to the 7-Eleven Australian Head Office. In an example highlighted during the story, a financial statement indicated total wages of a little over $64,000 for six staff. Ex ACCC boss Professor Allan Fels says that in his view the only way a Franchisee could ‘make a go of it’ is to underpay their staff.

No doubt the marketplace will hold the leadership of 7-Eleven Australia to account, even if the law doesn’t.

Let this be a lesson for all leaders. It is not ethical to maintain a system that cannot operate profitably when following the law. Despite the law appearing to not have many consequences for the leaders and owners of 7-Eleven Australia, they cannot hide from their ethical failure. Washing their hands of their Franchisees behaviours is simply not good enough. They presided over a system that under most circumstances could not work. Human beings have been negatively affected. These are simple, hardworking people who are just trying to get ahead like you and I. For their sake, I hope some good comes from the courage of the whistle-blowers whom have taken great personal risks to ensure that this story has been told.

Gary Ryan enables talented professionals, their teams and organisations to move Beyond Being Good®
effective communicationinternational studentsleadershipleadership developmentMonash Business Schoolpresenting in Englishpublic speakingspeaking in Englishtips for public speaking
Post navigation
Previous PostTips for public speaking in another language
Next PostEntrepreneurs have the power
Hi! I'm ExportBot, click me to ask me any questions!
Search for:
Recent Articles

    Leadership Done Right: Why Empathy and Transparency Matter
    Recruit Together, Succeed Together
    Master Mentoring: How to Shape Success Through Culture and Continuous Growth
    Unpacking the ROI on diversity and inclusion in organisations
    Emotional Intelligence Matters
    What is integrity?
    What is in your control?
    What drains your work batteries?
    It is possible to be…
    How to dis-engage an employee

Categories

    Articles career Career choices career plan Career Success Coach Communication Conversations That Matter Culture Customer Service Dialogue effective communication Employability Employability Skills Employee Engagement Engagement High Performance High Performing Teams Leaders leaders. leadership Leadership Leadership Development Learning Life Balance Life Plan life success Mastery personal development plan Personal Success Personal Vision personal vision plan plan for personal success Professional Development Projects Servant Leadership Service Excellence strategies for success strategy for success Success Systems Thinking Teamwork Values Vision What Really Matters For Young Professionals yes for success 

Follow Us

Navigate

    Home
    About Gary
    About Organisations That Matter: Transforming Businesses into Purpose-Driven Powerhouses
    All Products
    Articles
    Podcast
    Newsletter
    Contact Us
    Privacy Policy

Recent Posts

    Leadership Done Right: Why Empathy and Transparency Matter
    Recruit Together, Succeed Together
    Master Mentoring: How to Shape Success Through Culture and Continuous Growth
    Unpacking the ROI on diversity and inclusion in organisations
    Emotional Intelligence Matters

Contact Us

Organisations That Matter
PO Box 1021 Huntingdale, Victoria Australia 3166

Email: info@orgsthatmatter.com
Contact Us
Follow Gary Ryan

Copyright © 2025. All rights reserved.
site by accurate expressions


