archive.today
webpage capture
	Saved from	
no other snapshots from this url
	
29 May 2014 23:13:25 UTC
Original	
history←priornext→
	2 Oct 2009 10:09:40 UTC
All snapshots	from host archive.org
from host www.oxfam.org.au
Linked from	
speedydeletion.wikia.com » Adidas
en.wikipedia.org » Adidas
en.wikipedia.org » User talk:Alexandriarod21/sandbox
en.wikipedia.org » User:Bikemura/sandbox
WebpageScreenshot
sharedownload .zipreport bug or abuseBuy me a coffee

    Skip to content,
    search,
    global nav,
    main site nav,
    secondary nav,
    footer

    Oxfam Australia
    Oxfam Unwrapped
    Oxfam Shop
    Oxfam Trailwalker
    myOxfam

Oxfam Australia
Oxfam Australia is part of a global movement of dedicated people working hard to fight poverty and injustice.

    HOME
    EXPLORE
    ACT
    DONATE
    ABOUT US
    MEDIA
    CONTACT US

    Explore
        Indigenous Australia
        Climate change
        Workers' rights
            Oxfam supports workers' rights
            Which brands are dodging the hard questions?
            Nike
            adidas
                Looking inside adidas' Indonesian factories
                Talking with adidas
            Puma
            Are your clothes made in sweatshops?
        Water, sanitation and hygiene
        Conflict and natural disasters
        HIV and AIDS
        Health
        Education
        Gender equality
        Helping people help themselves
        Trade
        Mining
        Infrastructure, people and environment

    explore
    workers rights
    adidas

adidas
Photo: Timothy Herbert/OxfamAUS
So what’s the problem with adidas?
Thousands of workers endure poverty wages and harsh sweatshop-like conditions to make adidas their coveted sports shoes.
Although the company has made some progress, overall adidas don’t have a good track record in relation to upholding trade union rights. In 2006-2007 they removed orders from suppliers with a history of respecting union rights, preferring to place them with suppliers with a tainted history in this area.
The factories which adidas cut orders to were in financial trouble, but Oxfam is concerned that these financial difficulties are likely to have been linked to adidas’ continual push to reduce the price they pay their suppliers. adidas has refused to release data on the prices paid to these factories.
We have been in constant correspondence with adidas since 2006 asking that they uphold the rights of their workers.
So what’s the solution?
Better wages
Workers require a living wage, which is one that allows them to meet the basic needs of a family after working a full-time working week without overtime. adidas won’t commit to a living wage for its workers.
But it will commit to paying already high earning sport stars millions of dollars to endorse their products.
The right to form trade unions
adidas gets much of its gear made in countries and free trade zones where it is illegal or extremely difficult for workers to organise into unions. Without this united structure it is near impossible for individual workers to ask for improved conditions without fear of retribution.
A confidential complaints structure
When workers suffer sexual harassment, intimidation, violence or other human rights violations they need to be able to access a confidential complaints mechanism, and they need those complaints to be taken seriously and handled sensitively. In response to public pressure, adidas has made some effort to establish complaint mechanisms in some factories, but most adidas workers don’t have access to a complaint mechanism which they have reason to trust.
Ban short-term contracts
adidas moves its production where it likes when it likes and does not ban or discourage short-term contracts for its workers. So when it leaves an area those workers on short-term contracts are left with nothing.
Incentives for respecting workers’ rights
adidas should offer meaningful incentives to factories that respect workers’ rights, particularly workers’ right to organise trade unions. Without genuine incentives human rights abuses will continue.

    Dear adidas,
    … large sporting goods manufacturers have the responsibility to minimise large discrepancies of wage and working condition between the developed and developing worlds. I find it abhorrent that sports people are awarded millions in sponsorship deals while factory workers for the same company are paid around four euros a day. I hope you can take these criticisms from myself and others seriously.
    This message was sent by campaign supporter Frances Ampt in 2006, in response to an appeal from Oxfam Australia for supporters to send protest emails to sports brands

Act now

    Join our fight to respect workers’ rights and take action now.

Learn more

    Read more about the conditions inside adidas’ Indonesian factory operations.
    Adidas and its work practices were also reviewed in our comprehensive Offside! report (PDF, 4MB).
    adidas’ own explanation of their approach to workers’ rights is at: adidas-group.com – suppliers and workers

 
Write to adidas
Ask the head of adidas corporate social responsibilty (Asia Pacific) to ensure adidas respects the rights of their workers.

    Write now

Subscribe
Subscribe to our newsletter.
Keep up-to-date with NikeWatch News

    Name
    Email

 

    Our current campaigns
    Close the Gap
    Climate Change
    Workers' rights

    Join in
    Make a general donation
    Take action
    Shop at Oxfam
    Work at Oxfam
    Volunteer
    Join an event

    Learn about us
    Frequently asked questions
    Countries where we work
    Our history
    Our vision and values
    Online resource centre

    Stay up to date
    Recent news
    Our e-newsletters
    On Twitter
    On Flickr
    On YouTube
    On Facebook

Subscribe to news
Keep up to date monthly

    Your name
    Your email

    Send site feedback
    Copyright
    Our privacy policy
    Contact us

0%
 
10%
 
20%
 
30%
 
40%
 
50%
 
60%
 
70%
 
80%
 
90%
 
100%

