This website uses cookies
We use cookies to personalise content and ads, to provide social media features and to analyse our traffic. We also share information about your use of our site with our social media, advertising and analytics partners who may combine it with other information that you’ve provided to them or that they’ve collected from your use of their services.
Consent Selection
Necessary
Preferences
Statistics
Marketing
Show details
Skip to main content
Tuesday 12 August 2025
BlueSky
linkedin
youtube
rss
User account menu

    Subscribe

Home
Pharmaphorum menu first category

    News
    Views & Analysis
    Deep Dive
    Webinars
    Podcasts
    Videos
    Spotlight on
    Events

GSK, Sanofi and Haleon 'facing billions of dollars in Zantac liability'
News
Law gavel 600

GSK, its consumer health spin-off Haleon, and Sanofi could be on the hook for billions of dollars in potential damages over Zantac, a gastrointestinal drug pulled from the market in 2020 after it was linked to cases of cancer.

That's the conclusion of analysts at Morgan Stanley, Deutsche Bank and UBS, who have all issued research notes drawing attention to the issue, which has remained largely off the radar since sales of Zantac (ranitidine) were halted.

There are a couple of thousand legal complaints related to Zantac filed in the US, with a class action suit due to go to trial in Illinois later this month, and another scheduled to start in California in October.

Zantac was originated by GSK and launched by the company in the early 1980s, which sold it as a prescription and over-the-counter (OTC) product for indications like heartburn and acid indigestion over the years.

Sanofi had rights to the OTC version of the drug that was recalled in 2019 over possible contamination with the suspected carcinogen N-nitrosodimethylamine (NDMA), with the FDA banning sales the following year.

It was sold in generic form by several other producers, some of which have also been named in litigation, including Boehringer Ingelheim, Pfizer, and Johnson & Johnson. All the companies have insisted they will defend themselves vigorously in the lawsuits.

Some voluntarily took their products off the market as soon as the NDMA finding was reported by the FDA. Low levels of NDMA are ingested in the diet as the substance is found in food and water, but not at levels expected to cause an increase in cancer risk.

Shares in GSK lost 8% of their value today in the wake of the analyst comments, while Sanofi fell 3% and Haleon was down 6%, collectively wiping tens of billions of dollars off their valuations.

"We do not have a view on the likelihood or magnitude of a potentially negative outcome for Sanofi at this stage, but we do think that even not knowing will be enough to deter some investors," said UBS' Laura Sutcliffe in her note.

Haleon said in a prospectus filed earlier this week that it could face "possible liabilities" connected with OTC Zantac, although it is in the midst of indemnity negotiations with GSK and Pfizer – formerly partners in the joint venture from which it sprang.

GSK issued a statement saying that the litigation is "inconsistent with the scientific consensus," as both the FDA and EMA have "concluded there is no evidence of a causal association between ranitidine therapy and the development of cancer."

It also revealed that outside the US there are several class actions and in excess of 100 personal injury cases pending against GSK in Canada, along with a class action in Israel.
Image
Phil Taylor
profile-mask
Phil Taylor
11 August, 2022
GlaxoSmithKline
FacebookXLinkedin

News
IO Bio plans cancer vaccine filing despite trial miss
IO Bio plans cancer vaccine filing despite trial miss
/themes/custom/pharmaphorum_theme/library/img/article-label-image/ondemand.png
Market Access
Bridging research and clinical guidelines
Sponsored
Bridging research and clinical guidelines – interactive stra...
R&D
Deep Dive's research and development 2025 edition out now banner
Deep Dive: Research and Development 2025
R&D
Life Sciences Industry Report - Part 7 cover image
Life Sciences Industry Report - Biologics and Generics
Oncology
Interview at ASCO 2025 with Dr Jason Williams
Exploring the unconventional to provide hope: Dr Jason Willi...

Get in-depth news, opinions and features on pharma and healthcare sent straight to your inbox
GlaxoSmithKline
Haleon
litigation
Pfizer
Safety
Sanofi
Zantac
Category : News / Sales & Marketing

Editor's Picks

    GSK and CureVac settle mRNA patent spat with Pfizer/BioNTech
    RFK Jr cancels $500m in funding for mRNA vaccines
    Gates Foundation puts $2.5bn into 'ignored' women's health
    Click, Boehringer DTx for schizophrenia passes phase 3 test
    Meta harvested health data to target ads, jury concludes

News
IO Bio plans cancer vaccine filing despite trial miss
IO Bio plans cancer vaccine filing despite trial miss

IO Biotech's cancer vaccine Cylembio failed to hit the mark in a phase 3 melanoma trial – but the company hopes to file for approval regardless.
Market Access
pharmaphorum podcast Episode 178a - Sandra Anderson and Chris Williams, Cencora
The value of a partner, globally and locally

A new podcast looks at recent trends related to drug approvals, as well as challenges and opportunities both small and large pharma companies face
Pharmaphorum Menu

    Digital
    Market Access
    Oncology
    Patients
    R&D
    Sales & Marketing
    Spotlight on

Sign up for email newsletters and Deep Dive
Subscribe
rss
youtube
linkedin
BlueSky
Pharmaphorum
About us
Advertising
Contact us
Contribute
Cookie Policy
Privacy Policy
Terms & Conditions
Work for us
The rights of trademark owners are acknowledged. Website and content copyright © 2009-2025, pharmaphorum media limited or its licensors; all rights reserved. pharmaphorum – an EVERSANA company

