

X
Plant Based News
search
Subscribe today
Culture Ethics
McDonald’s Under Fire For Failing To Meet Animal Welfare Commitments
It's alleged that the fast-food giant still uses gestation crates, despite a decade-old commitment to phase them out

By Charlotte Pointing
29th April 2022

2 Minutes Read
A pig in a factory farm Pigs are sensitive and intelligent animals, just like dogs - Media Credit: Adobe Stock
iconography/share

Share
social/x-twitter
social/facebook
social/pinterest
social/reddit
print
social/linkedin
social/telegram
social/whatsapp
social/email

As a billionaire and one of Wall Street’s biggest success stories, Carl Icahn has a significant influence on the American business world. He’s also controversial, as a friend and former special advisor to Donald Trump. But recently, Icahn has turned his attention to calling out corporations on their animal welfare standards.

In a public letter to McDonald’s shareholders published this month, the founder of Icahn Enterprises has accused the fast-food giant’s Board of Directors of not doing enough to reduce animal suffering in its supply chain.

The letter, which focuses on pig welfare and the overall issue of sustainability in business, follows a similar open letter sent to meat giant Kroger.

Both letters challenge the corporations’ use of pig gestation crates. According to the Humane League, the metal cages are so small that pregnant pigs are unable to turn themselves around.
https://www.instagram.com/p/CcyCl46sMxf/
Calling out corporations’ lack of animal welfare

In his letter, Icahn refers to McDonald’s 2012 pledge that it would source all of its pork from gestation crate-free suppliers within 10 years. The billionaire states that the fast-food giant has failed to meet that commitment.

McDonald’s has also recently claimed that by the end of this year, it “expects to source 85 percent to 90 percent of its US pork volumes from sows not housed in gestation crates during pregnancy.”

But Icahn claims to see through these statements.

He writes: “That assertion is a cynical fabrication intended to fool us into believing this egregious form of animal abuse in McDonald’s’ supply chain is largely not occurring.”

“In reality, these sows, who have multiple litters of piglets each year, are confined in gestation crates during each pregnancy for approximately four to six weeks, 24 hours a day, seven days a week,” he continues.

“They will spend these weeks immobilized in tiny crates, not much bigger than their bodies, where they can’t even turn around.”

Among other commitments, Icahn is demanding that McDonald’s eliminates gestation crates completely by the end of next year. He adds: “which it failed to do this year, despite having a decade to do so.”

In the scathing letter to Kroger’s CEO Rodney McMullen, Icahn took a similar tone. He wrote: “You’ve helmed a company that certainly has the gravitas to steer change, yet instead have condoned cruelty towards those who are the most defenseless.”
iconography/share

Share
social/x-twitter
social/facebook
social/pinterest
social/reddit
print
social/linkedin
social/telegram
social/whatsapp
social/email

Tagged

animal cruelty

animal welfare

mcdonalds

news
Become A Plant Based Chef with our 1000+ recipes! 🥦

We know it can be hard to keep cooking up tasty, exciting meals. So we thought of them for you! Browse our selection of vegan recipes below.

Cook Vegan Recipes!
heading/author
The Author
Charlotte Pointing

Charlotte writes about sustainable beauty, fashion, and food. She spent more than 4 years editing in leading vegan media, and has a degree in history and a postgraduate in cultural heritage.

More by Charlotte Pointing
heading/trending
trending

    10 Gluten-Free Dessert Ideas
    Plant-Based Diets May Cut Cancer Risk By A Quarter, Study Shows
    Just Egg Has Launched In The UK – Here’s Where To Buy It
    New Report Details ‘Invisible Tsunami’ Of Pervasive Chemical Toxicity
    Don’t Eat Avocados Until You Do This Hack
    Price Drop and Familiar Recipes Boost Consumer Interest In Vegan Eggs, Study Finds
    Crunchy Roasted Chickpeas And Veggies With Peanut Sauce

PBN Podcast
Latest episode
Related Posts
Photo shows vegan athlete Tom Butts lifting an 80kg strongman-style dumbbell
Culture
Vegan Athlete Wins Britain’s Strongest Man Title
29th April 2022

3 minutes to read
Photo shows three Forest Green Rovers players wearing the new neon pink away kits
Culture
UK Football Team Unveils ‘World-First’ Vegan-Certified Kit
29th April 2022

3 minutes to read
Vegan triathlete Max Hoffmann after winning a race
Culture
A Vegan Triathlete Just Became The 2025 German Champion
29th April 2022

4 minutes to read
Photo shows a Danish flag flying in front of boats at Copenhagen Harbour
Culture
Denmark Introduces ‘Plant-Based Diplomacy Initiative’
29th April 2022

3 minutes to read
Trust in Journalism
Regulated by IMPRESS: The Independent Monitor For the Press CIC
IMPRESS, 16-18 New Brige Street, London, EC4V 6AG
T 02033254288
E complaints@impressreg.org.uk
W impress.press
Contact Us

    Contact
    Jobs
    Subscribe
    Submit An Article
    Advertise

Discover

    About Us
    Corrections & Complaints
    Frequently Asked Questions

More

    Privacy Policy
    Affiliate Links Policy
    RSS Feed

© 2025 Plant Based News is a mission-led impact media platform focused on elevating the plant-based diet and its benefit to human health, the planet, and animals. | Plant Based News Ltd, 869 High Road, London, United Kingdom, N12 8QA, United Kingdom.
buttons/scroll-to-top/scroll-to-top-large-active
Website CMP logo
We care about your privacy!

When visiting our site, pre-selected companies may access and use certain information on your device and about this web page to serve relevant ads or personalised content. Please note that ads help keep our service free. Personal data will be processed based on consent in accordance with Art.6(1)(a) of the GDPR framework in EU law, or as legitimate interest in accordance with Art.6(1)(f) of the same.
Learn more why you are seeing this

To offer you free, high-quality content and deliver the best possible user experience on our website, we and our technology partners (1516) require your consent to store and access personal data on your device. This includes using cookies, unique identifiers and information about your browse activity to show you relevant ads. This may include the following:

    Store and/or access information on a device
    Personalised advertising and content, advertising and content measurement, audience research and services development
    Use precise geolocation data
    Actively scan device characteristics for identification

You may consent to the processing described above or access more detailed information and customise your choices. The given consent will apply to this site only. Please take into consideration that some of your personal data processing may rely on legitimate interest which does not require your consent, but you have a right to object to this.

You can change or withdraw your consent anytime via our footer link or privacy policy page.
Customise choices
Accept all & visit the site

