
Skip to content
Skip Ad

    Newsletters Log In Subscribe 

Local Business

    Local Biz Nation Sports Entertainment Life Homes Opinion | The Ticket Jobs Explore 

    Boeing & Aerospace Amazon Real Estate Economy Microsoft Technology 

    BusinessLocal BusinessMicrosoft 

Microsoft is cutting dozens of MSN news production workers and replacing them with artificial intelligence
May 29, 2020 at 4:58 pm Updated May 29, 2020 at 8:43 pm
Geoff Baker By Geoff Baker
Seattle Times staff reporter

Microsoft won’t renew the contracts for dozens of news production contractors working at MSN and plans to use artificial intelligence to replace them, several people close to the situation confirmed on Friday.

The roughly 50 employees — contracted through staffing agencies Aquent, IFG and MAQ Consulting — were notified Wednesday that their services would no longer be needed beyond June 30.

“Like all companies, we evaluate our business on a regular basis,” a Microsoft spokesman said in a statement. “This can result in increased investment in some places and, from time to time, re-deployment in others. These decisions are not the result of the current pandemic.”

Full-time news producers employed by Microsoft will be retained by the company; they perform functions similar to those being let go. But all contracted news producer jobs have been eliminated.

Some employees, speaking on condition of anonymity, said MSN will use AI to replace the production work they’d been doing. That work includes using algorithms to identify trending news stories from dozens of publishing partners and to help optimize the content by rewriting headlines or adding better accompanying photographs or slide shows.

“It’s been semi-automated for a few months but now it’s full speed ahead,’’ one of the terminated contractors said. “It’s demoralizing to think machines can replace us but there you go.’’
Advertising
Skip Ad
Skip Ad
Skip Ad

Besides the production work, the contract employees also planned content, maintained the editorial calendars of partner news websites and assigned content to them.
Related

MSN has undergone a number of changes since its launch as Microsoft Network in 1995. Once a web portal and default internet homepage for millions of personal computers, it offered original content and links to news, weather and sports.

In 2013, it rolled back original news content and began cutting employees. By 2014, it launched a redesigned version that partnered with other news sites — paying them to redistribute their content.

Today, the news service relies entirely on those partnerships with no original news content of its own. Curating stories rather than actually generating them made it easier for MSN to increasingly rely on an automated editing system, though several of the terminated employees expressed skepticism it will work as well with fewer human beings to monitor the technology.
Related
Geoff Baker: gbaker@seattletimes.com. Geoff Baker covers hockey and is a sports enterprise and investigative reporter for The Seattle Times.
Most Read Business Stories

    Seattle's Pacific Place mirrors downtown retail woes
    So long to tech’s dream job. Shut-up-and-grind era is here
    Some WA Costco food courts now have Coke at their soda fountains
    Goodbye, $165,000 tech jobs. Student coders seek work at Chipotle
    Explosion at US Steel plant in Pennsylvania leaves 2 dead, 10 injured WATCH

View 13 Comments / 13 New

The opinions expressed in reader comments are those of the author only and do not reflect the opinions of The Seattle Times.
Recommended in
Advertising
Skip Ad
Skip Ad
Skip Ad
Skip Ad

    COMPANY
        About
        Contact
        Careers
        Permissions
        Newsroom Staff
    COMMUNITY
        Newspapers in Education
        Fund for Those in Need
        Investigative Journalism Fund
    Advertise
        Media Solutions
        ST Content Studio
        Classifieds
        Jobs
        Autos
        Obituaries
    SUBSCRIPTION
        Subscribe
        My Account
        Print Replica Login
        Today’s Paper
        Mobile Apps
        Help/FAQ
    CONNECT
        Manage Newsletters
        Facebook
        Twitter
        RSS
        Newspaper Archive Access

Copyright © 2025 The Seattle Times | Privacy Statement | Notice At Collection | Do Not Sell My Personal Information | Terms of Service

