Skip to Article
syracuse’s Logo
Unlimited Digital Access - Start Today for $1

    CNY Schools & Colleges

Take two: Oneida school district picks the plan for its high school students this fall

    Updated: Aug. 15, 2025, 5:13 p.m.|Published: Aug. 15, 2025, 5:02 p.m.

Oneida High School flooding
The basement of Oneida High School after the June 22 storm. The water has since been extracted and the floor cleaned and sanitized.Provided photo

By

    Elizabeth Doran | edoran@syracuse.com

Oneida, NY - The Oneida school district has decided it will put its 500 high school students in the middle school for half-days.

That means high school students will use Otto Shortell Middle School in the first half of the day and the middle school students will use the campus in the second half of the day, the district announced on its Facebook page this afternoon.

The first day of school is Sept. 4 for Oneida students.

This step comes after Oneida City school district officials reversed course earlier this week on a plan to temporarily use the former Bishop Grimes Jr/Sr High School.

Today’s announcement did not address many specifics for the school year, which starts in less than three weeks. Details about scheduling for each grade, how the shorter days would meet specific educational requirements and transportation options were unavailable.

Superintendent Matthew Carpenter said families could reach out to the district through email, phone or messenger.

The district announced Aug. 1 its decision to move forward with plans to sign a lease with Bishop Grimes. Nearly two weeks later, Oneida School Superintendent Matthew Carpenter announced the district had abandoned that plan.

After a thorough review and inspection of Bishop Grimes, it was determined too many upgrades would be required to the mechanical, heating, safety and network systems in too short a time period, Carpenter said.

Many parents expressed frustration on social media about not knowing where their students would be attending schools in a few short weeks.

In late July, the district told the community the high school would not reopen for students this fall for the school year due to damage from flooding. The June 22 storm damaged the school’s electrical system and made the building unusable this academic year.

The district considered Cazenovia College, Rome Catholic School (which closed in 2024), Bishop Grimes, Oneida Ltd., BOCES and other neighboring districts.

They looked at the location, the space, the condition of the building, its network capability, athletic facilities and costs.

Carpenter previously said the district wanted to avoid splitting the high schoolers into different locations or restart remote learning.
Elizabeth Doran
Most Popular Stories by Elizabeth Doran

    Popular retailer moving into former Bed Bath & Beyond location in DeWitt
    Fatal shooting at Wegmans warehouse leads to some empty shelves at stores
    Onondaga County’s newest Chick-fil-A announces opening date
    New national chain specialty retailer opens in DeWitt shopping plaza
    Oneida has found a temporary home for its high school students

.

If you purchase a product or register for an account through a link on our site, we may receive compensation. By using this site, you consent to our User Agreement and agree that your clicks, interactions, and personal information may be collected, recorded, and/or stored by us and social media and other third-party partners in accordance with our Privacy Policy.
Visit the syracuse.com The Post-Standard home page
About Us

    About Us
    Photo and Page Reprints
    Advertise with us
    Jobs at Advance Media New York
    Contact Us
    Newspaper Archives
    Frequently Asked Questions
    Accessibility Statement
    Submit letter, commentary

Subscriptions

    syracuse.com
    syracuse.com Orange Sports Insider
    The Post-Standard
    Email Newsletters

Already a Subscriber

    Manage your Subscription
    Place a Vacation Hold
    Make a Payment
    Delivery Feedback

syracuse.com Sections

    News
    Weather
    Business
    Sports
    High School Sports
    Betting
    Entertainment
    Living
    Opinion
    Obituaries
    Jobs
    Autos
    Real Estate
    Rentals
    Classifieds

Mobile

    Tablet Apps
    iPhone, Android apps

More on syracuse.com

    Videos
    Sitemap
    Sponsor Content
    Archives
    Sell your car
    Post a job
    Post a classified ad
    Sell/rent your home

Follow Us

    Twitter
    Instagram
    Facebook
    YouTube
    RSS

    Privacy Policy
    |User Agreement
    |Ad Choices iconAd Choices

Advance Local logo

Use of and/or registration on any portion of this site constitutes acceptance of our User Agreement, (updated 8/1/2024) and acknowledgement of our Privacy Policy, and Your Privacy Choices and Rights (updated 7/1/2025).

© 2025 Advance Local Media LLC. All rights reserved (About Us).
The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Advance Local.

Community Rules apply to all content you upload or otherwise submit to this site.

YouTube's privacy policy is available here and YouTube's terms of service is available here.

Ad Choices iconAd Choices

