archive.today
webpage capture
	Saved from	
no other snapshots from this url
	
11 Aug 2025 19:48:06 UTC
All snapshots	from host www.thetimes.com
WebpageScreenshot
sharedownload .zipreport bug or abuse
Accessibility Links
Skip to content
The Times & The Sunday Times
Search
Home
UK
World
Comment
Life & Style
Business & Money
Sport
Culture
Travel
Obituaries
Puzzles
Magazines
Home
Obituaries
More
Browse by day
new
Now showing content from the last twelve months, not just the past six days.
TV guide
Times+
Times Events
Times Radio
Podcasts
Schools Guide
Good University Guide
Best Places to Live
Best Places to Stay
Best Places to Work
The Sunday Times Rich List
The Sunday Times 100
Sportswomen of the Year Awards
Young Power list
Money Mentor
Wine club
Appointments
Times Bookshop
Authors
Ice-cream toting guards escort JD Vance to UK’s poshest farm shop
The American vice-president brought his 20-car motorcade and tight security for a family lunch at Daylesford Organic in the Cotswolds
new
Will Humphries
Monday August 11 2025, 8.20pm BST, The Times
JD Vance and his family visiting Daylesford Farm.
JD Vance, his wife Usha and their three children had lunch in a private dining room at Daylesford Organic
The man in the dark suit with an earpiece in the middle of a meadow was what gave it away.
Quiet country lanes and rolling farmland are not the natural habitat of the Secret Service. So when they descended on Daylesford Organic, Britain’s poshest farm shop, visitors suspected someone important might be about to make an appearance.
JD Vance, the American vice-president, and his family were to visit for lunch as they continue their summer holiday in the Cotswolds.
“This morning there were two guys walking the perimeter of the meadow in a black suit and tie,” said one member of the gym that is attached to the farm shop, having spotted them out of the window during a fitness class.
“There are gardeners in the meadow sometimes but not a man in a suit and tie, I have never seen that before, so I knew it must be for the vice-president. It’s not really very secret when they are dressed like that.”
The farm shop is founded and run by Lady Bamford, the wife of the billionaire JCB chairman and Tory donor Lord Bamford. The Bamfords are not unaccustomed to welcoming politicians to their Georgian country estate at Daylesford House, having hosted the wedding party of Boris and Carrie Johnson there in 2022.
A staff member said that Vance, his wife, Usha, and their three children, Ewan, eight, Vivek, five, and Mirabel, three, had lunch in a private dining room at Daylesford Organic. Lord and Lady Bamford were seen leaving the restaurant at about 3pm. The Vances left just before 4pm.
US Vice President JD Vance at Daylesford Farm Shop.
Vance had a tour of the complex at Daylesford
JOSH MAWR/BACKGRID
“They came and had lunch as a family,” a staff member said. “It’s been exciting. Nice to have something different.”
Vance and his wife were laughing as they walked through a conservatory during a tour of the complex at Daylesford.
Daylesford Organic, where a 240g jar of hot chilli honey costs £15, is a 20-minute drive in the vice-president’s 20-vehicle motorcade from Dean Manor, where they are spending their holiday in the west Oxfordshire countryside.
The motorcade was parked up outside the farm shop from about 1pm and sat there for just under three hours while the Vances had lunch.
A black motorcade vehicle passing through Chipping Norton.
One of the vehicles in Vance’s motorcade travelling through the Cotswolds during his visit to Daylesford Organic
EMMA TRIMBLE/SWNS
Secret Service officers dressed in light-coloured chinos and plaid shirts, hiding kevlar vests beneath, walked around the car park and inside the building.
“It’s not very environmentally friendly,” muttered a lady in a floppy hat and Dior sunglasses, as she looked at the fleet of gas-guzzling SUVs with their engines idling, in case they needed to make a quick getaway. It was pointed out to her that the environment isn’t one of the Trump administration’s top priorities.
• JD Vance tells Europe to ‘step up and take a bigger role’ in Ukraine
A team of British armed counterterrorism officers got short shrift from one Daylesford customer who demanded they move their idling Toyota SUV away from her Tesla car.
“Can you move now because it’s very smelly and when I open my door the dog will be inside,” the woman, wearing loafers and gold earrings, said. The British security operative, holding his door open to reveal a firearm strapped to the inside, seemed slightly taken back by her abruptness but they quickly complied with her demands.

One of the British officers later walked out of the farm shop with three ice creams for his colleagues. “Who wants chocolate,” he said.
Man carrying ice cream cones near a car.
One of the British officers walked out of the farm shop with three ice creams for his colleagues
WILL HUMPHRIES
Gun strapped to the door of a vehicle.
The officers had guns strapped to their doors
WILL HUMPHRIES
Several members of the American security detail were seen leaving with Daylesford paper shopping bags to put in their armoured vehicles.
Members of the Metropolitan Police’s special escort group, who provide mobile armed protection to members of the royal family and government ministers, were wandering around in their bike leathers, with handguns and tasers strapped to their waists.
Several American tourists were in the crowd of about a hundred visitors who gathered at the entrance in the hope of seeing the vice-president as he left.
Arne and Holly Ewing, both 49, from New Jersey, were having lunch in the restaurant when they noticed JD Vance and his family walk through.
Mrs Ewing, a self-confessed Maga fan, said: “We’d never get a chance to see him like that at home, you’d never get close. I posted on our family chat and my dad’s like, how did you get so close to him? I was like, we’re in England.”
• JD Vance and Rubio are Republicans to beat (if there’s a vacancy)
Jay Samuels, on holiday from North Carolina, was hoping to get a photo of the Vances but they left via a side entrance, leaving the crowd disappointed as they watched the rest of the motorcade pull away without the stars of the show.
Asked what she made of the Cotswolds during her trip, Mrs Ewing said: “Oh, it’s beautiful. I had to come and have my English garden cocktail.”
The Vances returned to their holiday home of Dean Manor, which is normally the home of Johnny Hornby, chief executive of Luceco, a lighting and electrical company, and his wife, Pippa, who have apologised to some locals for “the circus for the next few days” and said they hoped it would not be “too disruptive”.
All roads and footpaths in and out of the hamlet of Dean, where David Cameron has his country home, have been closed by the Secret Service and Thames Valley police, with the handful of locals having to prove their identity to get in and out.
On Wednesday the vice-president will visit US troops stationed at RAF Fairford in Gloucestershire.
US
US politics
Related articles
Sleepy Cotswolds hamlet on lockdown as JD Vance’s holiday gets under way
Sleepy Cotswolds hamlet on lockdown as JD Vance’s holiday gets under way
August 10 2025, 6.15pm BST
Will Humphries
, Southwest Correspondent
Vance and Rubio are the Republicans to beat in 2028 — if there’s a vacancy
KATY BALLS, WASHINGTON INSIDER
Vance and Rubio are the Republicans to beat in 2028 — if there’s a vacancy
August 10 2025, 12.01am BST
Katy Balls
PROMOTED CONTENT
Back to top
The Times & The Sunday Times
Get in touch

    About us
    Contact us
    Help
    The Times Editorial Complaints
    The Sunday Times Editorial Complaints
    Place an announcement
    Classified advertising
    Display advertising
    The Times corrections
    The Sunday Times corrections
    Careers

More from The Times and The Sunday Times

    The Times e-paper
    The Sunday Times e-paper
    The Sunday Times Wine Club
    Times Print Gallery
    The Times Archive
    Times Crossword Club
    Sunday Times Driving
    Times+
    The Sunday Times Rich List
    Travel
    Good University Guide
    Schools Guide
    Newsletters
    Best Places to Live
    Best Places to Stay
    Times Appointments
    Podcasts
    Times Money Mentor
    Times Luxury
    Sportswomen of the Year Awards
    Best Places to Work
    Puzzles
    TV guide
    Times Radio
    The Sunday Times 100
    Times Bookshop

More from News Corp

    The Australian
    Barron's
    Dow Jones
    Financial News London
    Investor's Business Daily
    Mansion Global
    MarketWatch
    Realtor.com
    The Sun
    Times Literary Supplement
    The Wall Street Journal

© Times Media Limited 2025.
Registered in England No. 894646. Registered office: 1 London Bridge Street, SE1 9GF.

    Privacy & cookie policy
    Generative AI editorial guidelines
    Licensing
    Site map
    Topics
    Puzzles Archive
    Authors
    Commissioning terms
    Terms and conditions

ipso regulated
0%
 
10%
 
20%
 
30%
 
40%
 
50%
 
60%
 
70%
 
80%
 
90%
 
100%

