
Skip to content
The View from Great Island

    Recipes
    Explore!
    Dinners
    Desserts
    Tools

    Facebook
    Instagram
    Pinterest
    Youtube

Home » Blender » Homemade Green Tabasco® Sauce
Make Your Own Green Tabasco
Homemade Green Tabasco® Sauce
1 day d 15 minutes mins
36
reviews
A fiery bright green homemade Tabasco sauce!
Published: 08/23/2013Updated: 03/18/2024Author: Sue Moran
Jump to Recipe
Pin the Recipe
This post may contain affiliate links. Read my disclosure policy.

    My homemade green Tabasco® sauce recipe is hot and tangy, and so easy to make in your own kitchen! Use it on everything from eggs to tacos.

A bottle of homemade green tabasco sauce
WANT TO SAVE THIS RECIPE?

Enter your email below & we'll send the link to your inbox. Plus be first to see brand new recipes!
MY LATEST VIDEOS

If you’re a hot sauce lover you’ve got to make a batch of this fresh homemade green Tabasco sauce!

Whether you call it green Tabasco, green sriracha, or salsa verde —  this is the green version of a classic red hot sauce, made with a pound of jalapeño (or Serrano) chilies. You can be sure this sauce packs a wallop. If you love hot sauce, then you’ll love being able to make our own and control what goes in. It’s good on everything from scrambled eggs to tacos and it keeps plenty long enough to polish it off.
Let’s dig in

    homemade green Tabasco sauce ingredients
    how we’re using our homemade green hot sauce!

Pureeing hot peppers for Green Tabascao Sauce
homemade green Tabasco sauce ingredients

    Serrano or jalapeno peppers
        Serranos are much hotter than Jalapeños, so choose according to your taste for heat. Mix them if you like.
    garlic
    salt
    brown sugar
    cider vinegar

Hot peppers are technically in season in late summer, so that’s an ideal time to make this sauce. But luckily you can get all kinds of peppers year round in most supermarkets, and they’re easy to grow, too. A lot of hot sauce recipes call for cooking the pureed peppers. I see no need for that, and I prefer the bright green color and the bright kick of the raw peppers. After pureeing them you let the mash hang out in the fridge for a day or two to mature. Then you strain the mixture, pressing like crazy to get all the juice extracted, and you’ll be left with a cup of pure green gold. I think green hot sauces have more of the fresh pepper flavor than the reds do. This one is really good and really versatile.
Making Green Tabasco Sauce

The puree hangs out in the fridge to mature for a day or two before being strained.

Recycled commercial hot sauce bottles are perfect to use because they let you pour the sauce out in dashes. Use a small funnel to fill them.
Filling a bottle with homemade green tabasco sauce
how we’re using our homemade green hot sauce!

    Fried Chicken Tacos
    Perfect Egg Tartines
    Sweet Corn and Hatch Chile Salsa
    Mexican Short Rib Tacos
    Mexican Fajita Steak Salad
    Steak Taco Crunch Wraps

A bottle of homemade green tabasco sauce with Serrano pepper

    Featured comment:

    “Wow – I’m becoming such a fan, Sue! I make at least one of your recipes a week! We LOVE green sauce and with the abundance of jalapenos I have growing in my garden, they will no longer go to waste! Cheers!” ~ Candace

Make Your Own Green Tabasco
Homemade Green Tabasco Sauce
4.03 from 36 votes
A fiery bright green homemade Tabasco sauce!
Print Recipe
Pin Recipe
Rate Recipe
Prep Time:15 minutes minutes
Cook Time:1 day day
Total Time:1 day day 15 minutes minutes
Servings: 16
Cook Mode
Prevent your screen from going dark
Ingredients
 
green tabasco

    1 lb Serrano or jalapeno peppers*
    1 clove garlic
    1 tsp salt
    1 Tbsp brown sugar
    1/4 cup white or cider vinegar

Instructions

    First make the tabasco ~ Rinse the peppers, and cut off the stem tops. Slice the peppers, seeds and all. Put them into the bowl of a food processor. Add the garlic, salt and brown sugar. Puree the mixture, pulsing and scraping down the sides of the machine as necessary to get it as finely pureed as you can. Note: Be careful as the fumes will be powerful. You may want to wear gloves, and be careful not to touch your eyes, nose, or mouth while working with hot peppers.
    Add the vinegar to the peppers and stir well. Put the mash in a bowl or jar with a lid and refrigerate for 24 – 48 hours.
    Strain the mixture through a mesh seive, pressing with the back of a spoon to get all the liquid out. Do it in batches, and keep at it — the more you press the more liquid will be released. You should end up with at least a cup of sauce.
    Store the sauce in a clean bottle in the refrigerator. It should last a couple of months.
    Give the bottle a shake before using as the contents will settle.

Notes
*Serrano peppers are hotter than jalapeños, so choose your Serranos for a hotter sauce, and jalapeños for a milder version.
Hot peppers are powerful, so be sure to wash well after handling them, and be extra careful around pets and children. If you’re sensitive to hot peppers, wear rubber gloves.
NEW FEATURE! Click here to add your own private notes.
Course: condiment
Cuisine: American
Author: Sue Moran
Keyword: hot sauce, jalapeños
Nutrition
Serving: 1 Tbsp · Calories: 13 kcal · Carbohydrates: 3 g · Protein: 1 g · Fat: 0.1 g · Saturated Fat: 0.02 g · Polyunsaturated Fat: 0.1 g · Monounsaturated Fat: 0.01 g · Sodium: 149 mg · Potassium: 91 mg · Fiber: 1 g · Sugar: 2 g · Vitamin A: 266 IU · Vitamin C: 13 mg · Calcium: 4 mg · Iron: 0.3 mg
Nutritional information is provided as a courtesy and is an estimate only. This information comes from online calculators. Although The View from Great Island attempts to provide accurate nutritional information, these figures are only estimates.
Did You Make This?We love seeing what you’ve made! Tag us on social media at @theviewfromgreatisland for a chance to be featured.

Facebook
X
Email

    Print

More homemade condiments
Caesar salad with homemade Caesar salad dressing.
30 Second Caesar Salad Dressing Recipe
190
reviews
Hollandaise sauce on asparagus.
30 Second Hollandaise Sauce Recipe
308
reviews
making homemade aioli
30-Second Aioli Recipe
7
reviews
30 second Béarnaise sauce in a jar with sprig of chervil.
30 Second Béarnaise Sauce
2
reviews
Explore Similar Articles in:

    Blender
    Condiments & Sauces

4.03 from 36 votes (31 ratings without comment)
Leave a Review!

I love hearing from you! Submit your question or review below. Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked*.

Message
Please rate this recipe!	
Please rate this recipe!

Author*

Email*

Questions and Reviews

    Susie says:

    I have loads of peppers, so I’m going to try this. I see comments about using it in a cocktail, but I don’t see where your cocktail recipe is. Could you please tell me what it is? Thanks!
    Reply
        Sue Moran says:

        That was in a much older version of this post, I’ll see if I can dig it up for you.
        Reply
    Chris M says:

    Brown sugar? You can call this hot sauce, but NOT tobasco.
    Reply
        Sue Moran says:

        Point taken! I think that little bit balances out the flavors in this sauce.
        Reply
    Barbara Morris says:

    5 stars I just stumbled onto this post. It looks wonderful and I mean to try it when peppers come around again. I wonder what it would take to process this sauce into bottles for canning. I can imagine little green bottles tied with ribbon as gifts at the holidays. The mixologists in my crowd would go nuts.
    Reply
        Sue Moran says:

        I didn’t formulate this with canning in mind, but you might research it, I’m sure you could fine a can-able recipe, it would just have to be tested for the acidity level.
        Reply
    Mexico Cooks! says:

    Very interesting way to make ‘green Tabasco’. I have a question, though:

    In the body of your post, you mention that there is no need to cook the chiles. Yet in the photograph of the chiles in the food processor, the chiles appear to have been toreado–sauteed in oil till slightly browned. I’m a little confused. Help, please?

    Cristina
    Reply
        Sue says:

        Mine were raw, but you certainly could roast them for an interesting flavor!
        Reply
    Eileen says:

    5 stars I may need to try this tabasco out with the massive amount of ripe jalapenos we have growing in our backyard! And the martini will definitely be happening one of these long late-summer afternoons. 🙂
    Reply
    Pam says:

    5 stars I’ll drink to that! It sounds great and is a must try! I see it in my future. Like your blog!
    Reply
        Sue says:

        Thanks Pam, I think the drink is really good, it has a nice contrast of cooling and (slight) burning sensations going on… hope you like it.
        Reply
    Tabitha says:

    5 stars Can’t believe you made Tabasco and that it can be included in a cocktail, I love Tabasco.
    Reply
        Sue says:

        There are lots of them (mostly for the red kind) Here’s a list!
        http://www.barnonedrinks.com/drinks/by_ingredient/t/tabasco-sauce-896.html
        Reply
    Candace says:

    5 stars Wow – I’m becoming such a fan, Sue! I make at least one of your recipes a week! We LOVE green sauce and with the abundance of jalapenos I have growing in my garden, they will no longer go to waste!
    Cheers!
    Reply
        Sue says:

        I’m so glad, Candace! If you like spicy green sauce, be sure to try my Chimichurri, it’s one of m favorites!
        https://theviewfromgreatisland.com/2012/10/minimal-monday-chimichurri-sauce.html
        and the spicy green chutney, if you like Indian food:
        https://theviewfromgreatisland.com/2012/05/spinach-and-onion-pakora-with-green-chutney.html
        Reply
            Candace says:

            Thanks, Sue – we love Indian food!
            Cheers!
            Reply

Sue Moran
About The Author:
Sue Moran
Hey there ~ I'm Sue. I love to make delicious food, photograph it, and write about it, but mostly, I just love to EAT. Isn't that what it's all about? My recipes are creative, vibrant, and totally approachable no matter what your skill level. Let's grab a bite together!
Read More
Trending Recipes
Raspberry Lemon Tea Cake with fork
Raspberry Cake with Lemon Buttercream
3636
reviews
Mediterranean Bean Salad in a white bowl.
Mediterranean Bean Salad
1206
reviews
a stack of strawberry lemon blondies with forks.
Strawberry Lemon Blondies
4482
reviews
spooning custard sauce on an Irish Apple Cake
Authentic Irish Apple Cake
1163
reviews
slice of chocolate layer cake
Ina Garten’s Chocolate Cake Recipe
705
reviews
Tuscan Chicken simmering in a pot with serving spoon.
Creamy Tuscan Chicken
675
reviews
Get my FREE eCookbook when you sign up for my newsletter!
Spicy Thai Spaghetti Salad in glass bowl
Thai Spaghetti Salad
622
reviews
rhubarb breakfast cake
Easy Rhubarb Cake
1183
reviews
Mom’s Creamy Potato Salad Recipe
45
reviews
buttermilk doughnut cake on rack
Glazed Old Fashioned Doughnut Cake
590
reviews
a slice of blueberry lemon layer cake with fork
Blueberry Lemon Cake
323
reviews
Mediterranean roasted sheet pan salmon with tomatoes, olives, onion, and lemon
Mediterranean Sheet Pan Salmon
152
reviews
As Seen On Better Homes & GardensCountry LivingHuffington PostReal SimpleThe Washington PostToday

    About
    Accessibility
    Contact
    Privacy Statement

© 2025 The View from Great Island, All Rights Reserved.
4.3K shares

Update Privacy Preferences
Terms of Content Use
A Raptive Partner Site

