Accessibility statement
Skip to main content
Democracy Dies in Darkness
Sign in
Advertisement
Politics
Donald Trump
The Fix
The Briefs
Polling
Democracy in America
Elections
Trump orders federal takeover of D.C. police, deploys National Guard

The mayor calls the actions “unsettling and unprecedented” but says D.C. has little choice but to cooperate.
Updated
August 11, 2025 at 9:03 p.m. EDTtoday at 9:03 p.m. EDT
11 min
President Donald Trump announced on August 11 that he would deploy the National Guard to Washington, D.C. and federalize the Metropolitan Police Department. (Video: Reuters)
By Michael Birnbaum
and 
Perry Stein

President Donald Trump announced Monday that he was placing the D.C. police under direct federal control and will deploy the National Guard to the streets of Washington to fight crime, an extraordinary flex of federal power that stripped city leadership of its ability to make law enforcement decisions and could expose residents of the nation’s capital to unpredictable encounters with a domestically deployed military force.

The decision to take over the D.C. police and deploy 800 National Guard troops comes as the president has been slamming America’s cities as places where crime is out of control, despite two years of declines that have brought homicide levels in many major cities to their lowest levels in decades.
Advertisement
Advertisement
Advertisement
Advertisement

The administration has already mobilized FBI agents in recent days in overnight shifts to help local law enforcement prevent carjackings and violent crime, officials said. Because the District of Columbia is not a state, the federal government has unusually sweeping powers to intervene over the objections of its residents and leaders, giving the president an opportunity to use it as a laboratory for a militarized approach to urban crime-fighting.

Under the city’s Home Rule Act, the president can take over the D.C. police for a period of up to 30 days by declaring “special conditions of an emergency nature exist.” After that time, the police would revert to local control unless Congress passes a law to allow a longer period of federal control.

Whether the administration would want to extend the takeover beyond 30 days is unclear. In previous actions, including sending the National Guard to Los Angeles, Trump made high-profile declarations, then allowed the federal deployments to fade out over time. A longer period of federal accountability for local D.C. crime could raise the political risk for Trump.
Advertisement
Advertisement

At an afternoon news conference, Mayor Muriel E. Bowser (D) said she intended to comply with the order, making clear that she believed she had little power under the Home Rule Act to do otherwise, though she said a legal review was underway. She also sought to downplay the order’s impact on day-to-day policing.

Follow Trump’s second term

“We’re at a 30-year violent-crime low. We’re not satisfied. We haven’t taken our foot off the gas, and we continue to look for ways to make our city safer,” she said. “While this action today is unsettling and unprecedented, I can’t say that — given some of the rhetoric of the past — that we’re totally surprised.”

Bowser added that she was seeking a meeting with Attorney General Pam Bondi to discuss the takeover.

“The fact that we have more law enforcement and presence in neighborhoods that could not, you know, that may be positive,” she said.
D.C. Mayor Muriel Bowser (D) said on Aug. 11 the city would cooperate with President Donald Trump’s federal takeover, calling the move unsurprising. (Video: Mariana Trujillo Valdes/Reuters, Photo: Reuters/Reuters)

Trump has portrayed crime in the nation’s capital as spiraling upward. Bowser has noted repeatedly that violent crime has declined for the past two years after a sharp post-pandemic spike in 2023.

Terry Cole, the head of the Drug Enforcement Administration whom Trump named as the commissioner of the D.C. police, met Monday evening with D.C. Police Chief Pamela A. Smith and relayed to her that “the federal team involved in this know that they don’t know the city, and they are looking for [the D.C. police department] to lead” the effort, a D.C. police official said, speaking on the condition of anonymity because they were not authorized to discuss the matter publicly.
Advertisement
Advertisement
Advertisement
Advertisement

A Trump administration official, speaking on the condition of anonymity because they were not authorized to discuss the matter publicly, disputed that Cole had said that federal officials did not know the city, or that D.C. would take the lead, but said that he had relayed a desire for a collaborative relationship.

Smith tasked her widely respected No. 2, Executive Assistant Chief Jeffrey Carroll, with leading the relationship between D.C. police and their federal partners, the D.C. police official said.

Trump, however, portrayed a sweeping vision of law enforcement on the streets of Washington, declaring that federal agents, D.C. police and the National Guard would use physical force to intimidate lawbreakers inside the District.

“They fight back until you knock the hell out of them, because it’s the only language they understand,” Trump told reporters at a White House news conference. “It’s a disgusting thing.”

“It’s becoming a situation of complete and total lawlessness, and we’re getting rid of the slums, too,” Trump added. “I know it’s not politically correct. You’ll say, ‘Oh, so terrible.’ No, we’re getting rid of the slums where they live.”

Trump’s rhetoric brought an angry response from the members of the D.C. Council.

“This is a manufactured intrusion on local authority. Violent crime in the District is at the lowest rates we’ve seen in 30 years. Federalizing the Metropolitan Police Department is unwarranted because there is no Federal emergency,” the council members said in a joint statement. “It is our police officers who should be leading the efforts to keep our communities safe — not the National Guard.”
Advertisement
Advertisement

“The Administration’s actions are unprecedented, unnecessary, and unlawful. There is no crime emergency in the District of Columbia,” D.C. Attorney General Brian Schwalb (D) said in a statement. “We are considering all of our options and will do what’s necessary to protect the rights and safety of District residents.”

Bowser suggested a legal challenge to Trump’s emergency declaration would be unlikely to succeed. “We could contest that, but the authority is pretty broad,” she said at her news conference.

The National Guard deployment is separate from the takeover of the police force and could last longer. Those troops will be able to take direct action, including conducting arrests, according to national security legal experts. The ability of the National Guard to take such law enforcement action results from the District’s lack of statehood. Because of that, Trump can mobilize the D.C. National Guard in the same fashion that a governor could do in a state. In the rest of the country, the armed forces are typically not allowed to take direct part in civilian law enforcement.
Advertisement
Advertisement
Advertisement
Advertisement

An Army official said that there were no plans for troops to engage in law enforcement at this point, but that they could conduct arrests if needed.

Army spokesman Col. Dave Butler said that National Guard troops should be in position later this week. Since most live locally, the troops will serve in shifts of 200 each, to provide round-the-clock presence, Butler said. The troops for now will be focused on providing logistical and administrative support to free police officers to conduct law enforcement. In some cases the troops will provide presence at intersections that can be a deterrent to crime.

Administration officials have not specified where the National Guard troops would be deployed. Bondi repeatedly spoke at the news conference about crime as it affects tourists, suggesting one focus of the administration’s crackdown.
Skip to end of carousel

Trump presidency
Follow live updates on the Trump administration. We’re tracking Trump’s progress on campaign promises and legal challenges to his executive orders and actions.
End of carousel

Trump has repeatedly complained about crime in Washington and the city’s homeless population, but he was spurred to further action in recent days by an assault on a former U.S. DOGE Service staffer, who was injured in an alleged carjacking, a person familiar with internal White House deliberations said Monday, speaking like others on condition of anonymity to speak about internal considerations. Soon after the attack, D.C. police arrested a boy and a girl, both 15, from Maryland and charged them with unarmed carjacking of Edward Coristine, who is also known by the nickname “Big Balls.”
Advertisement
Advertisement

Trump last week posted an image of Coristine smeared in blood, sitting shirtless on the ground, warning that “if D.C. doesn’t get its act together, and quickly, we will have no choice but to take Federal control of the City.”

At the news conference where he announced his plans, Trump was flanked by top officials including Bondi, U.S. Attorney Jeanine Pirro, FBI Director Kash Patel, Defense Secretary Pete Hegseth and Interior Secretary Doug Burgum.

Wrongdoers will “not be allowed to turn our capital into a wasteland for the world to see,” he said, adding that world leaders who visit Washington should not see graffiti or signs of urban decay.

“If our capital is dirty, our whole country is dirty, and they don’t respect us,” he said.

Trump said that Chicago and New York City — two other major Democratic-controlled cities — could be next. Trump can’t take over their police forces, but he could theoretically deploy the National Guard, as he did in California earlier this year.
Advertisement
Advertisement
Advertisement
Advertisement

Trump’s move could hold significant risks for D.C. residents, with federal officials and troops who have little or no training in urban law enforcement empowered — and even encouraged — to use physical force to maintain order.

In addition to the temporary takeover of the police and the deployment of the National Guard, administration officials said that they would seek to expand the ages at which juveniles can be charged as adults.

Under D.C. law, the city’s attorney general prosecutes most juvenile crime. The U.S. attorney for D.C. — the federal prosecutor — handles adult criminal cases in the District and can charge 16- and 17-year-olds as adults if they are accused of certain violent crimes, including murder, rape, armed robbery and burglary. Pirro has advocated that teenagers as young as 14 be funneled into the adult justice system.

City leaders have disputed Trump’s characterization of crime in Washington, saying that the nation’s capital is safer than it was a year ago. Violent crime is down 26 percent compared with this time in 2024, according to D.C. police data. Homicides are down 12 percent.

The 2023 homicide spike turned Washington into one of America’s deadliest cities. But the crisis has significantly eased in Washington and across the nation, and in 2024, homicide rates were at their lowest in decades, according to data that The Washington Post collected from more than 100 police departments in large U.S. cities. Reports of burglaries and robberies have also dipped by double-digit percentages.
During campaign events from 2023 to 2024, Donald Trump painted D.C. as a dangerous, dirty city and said he would impose a federal takeover. (Video: Hadley Green/The Washington Post)

The National Guard deployment will be another example of the president’s increasing use of U.S. military forces to carry out his objectives on American soil, an approach that has been used only sparingly over history.

Earlier this year, the president tested legal limits when he bypassed California Gov. Gavin Newsom (D) and unilaterally deployed thousands of National Guard troops to protests over Immigration and Customs Enforcement raids in Los Angeles, an unprecedented move that is being challenged in court. Newsom had repeatedly asserted that the National Guard’s presence was not needed.

The FBI had already begun dispatching some 120 agents to overnight shifts in recent days, several people familiar with the matter told The Washington Post, speaking on the condition of anonymity to discuss staffing plans that had not been made public. The FBI officers were tasked with assisting local law enforcement in preventing carjackings and other crimes.

Congressional reaction to the plan predictably fell along partisan lines.

“President Trump is RIGHT. We can’t allow crime to destroy our Nation’s Capital,” House Speaker Mike Johnson (R-Louisiana) wrote on X.
Advertisement
Advertisement

Rep. Nancy Pelosi (D-California), a former House speaker, said on X that Trump was “activating the DC Guard to distract from his incompetent mishandling of tariffs, health care, education and immigration — just to name a few blunders.”

Jonathan Edwards, Kelly Kasulis George, Olivia George, Ellen Nakashima, Dan Lamothe, Natalie Allison, Jenny Gathright, Emily Davies, Scott Clement, Meagan Flynn, Tara Copp and Paul Kiefer contributed to this report.

Trump presidency

Follow live updates on the Trump administration. We’re tracking President Donald Trump’s progress on campaign promises and legal challenges to his executive orders and actions.

Tariffs and the economy: China and the United States agreed to lower tariffs on goods from each other’s countries for 90 days. Trump’s 10 percent “universal” tariff on all imports is still in place. Here’s what led to the decision to ease tariffs on China.

First 100 days: Trump is facing growing opposition to his ambitious and controversial agenda, with his approval rating in decline, according to a Washington Post-ABC News-Ipsos poll. But inside the White House, Trump’s team isn’t dissuaded. Here’s a look at Trump’s first 100 days in 10 charts.

Harvard feud: The Trump administration terminated $450 million in federal funding to Harvard University, the latest round in the battle between the administration and the Ivy League university. Harvard sued the Trump administration after it froze more than $2 billion in federal funding after the school refused to make sweeping changes to its governance, admissions and hiring practices.

Federal workers: The Trump administration continues to work to downsize the federal government, eliminating thousands of jobs at agencies including the Department of Health and Human Services, USAID, the IRS, the Social Security Administration, the Education Department, the Defense Department, the National Weather Service, and the National Park Service.
Show more
Trump administration
HAND CURATED

    Bowser calls Trump’s takeover of D.C. police department ‘unsettling and unprecedented’
    August 11, 2025
    Signs of Trump’s takeover of D.C. policing are in view, with more to come
    Earlier today
    FBI dispatching agents to D.C. streets as Trump weighs calling National Guard
    August 10, 2025

Most read

    1
    Signs of Trump’s takeover of D.C. policing are in view, with more to come
    2
    US teen influencer has been stranded in the Chilean Antarctic since landing without permission
    3
    Column
    R. Eric Thomas
    Asking Eric: Friend always runs off at the end of meals
    4
    Who is Terry Cole, the DEA boss now tasked with overseeing D.C. police?
    5
    Bowser calls Trump’s takeover of D.C. police department ‘unsettling and unprecedented’

Company

    About The Post
    Newsroom Policies & Standards
    Diversity & Inclusion
    Careers
    Media & Community Relations
    WP Creative Group
    Accessibility Statement 

Sections

    Trending
    Politics
    Elections
    Opinions
    National
    World
    Style
    Sports
    Business
    Climate
    Well+Being
    D.C., Md., & Va.
    Obituaries
    Weather
    Arts & Entertainment
    Recipes 

Get The Post

    WP Intelligence
    Enterprise Subscriptions
    Become a Subscriber
    Gift Subscriptions
    Mobile & Apps
    Newsletters & Alerts
    Washington Post Live
    Reprints & Permissions
    Post Store
    Books & E-Books
    Print Special Editions Store
    Today’s Paper
    Public Notices 

Contact Us

    Contact the Newsroom
    Contact Customer Care
    Contact the Opinions Team
    Advertise
    Licensing & Syndication
    Request a Correction
    Send a News Tip
    Report a Vulnerability 

Terms of Use

    Digital Products Terms of Sale
    Print Products Terms of Sale
    Terms of Service
    Privacy Policy
    Cookie Settings
    Submissions & Discussion Policy
    RSS Terms of Service
    Sitemap
    Ad Choices 

washingtonpost.com © 1996-2025 The Washington Post


