

    Today's Edition
    Latest News
    Features
    Apps
    About Us

Enjoy a full-featured replica of the Daily Mail on your smartphone, tablet or computer!

The Daily Mail E-Reader is a replica of our traditional printed publication with all the stories, photos, and artwork intact. You can read your favourite newspaper and our magazines anytime and anywhere.

The easy-to-use interface lets you flip leisurely through the pages like a newspaper, or conduct custom searches and share articles. Download the E-Reader and read it anywhere.
ALREADY AN E-PAPER SUBSCRIBER?

Enjoy a full-featured replica of the Daily Mail on your tablet, smartphone or laptop.
Our Publications

Our Digital Editions are available to all users, but in order to enhance your reading experience, please register. Registration is quick and easy, and it enables you to take full advantage of our features.

Get familiar with all the features

With the Daily Mail, you can read it online in its true printed format from anywhere in the world. The Digital Edition is enhanced with the latest digital tools, including RSS feeds, social networking, blogging and much more. See the Quick User Guide below for a list of key features.
LISTEN

On-demand narration is a great feature for users who like to listen to their magazine while multitasking or who are visually impaired.
SHARE

Love an article? Share it! You can get a direct link to an article, post it on Facebook and Twitter, email it or copy it onto a note-taking app.
BOOKMARKS

Save articles for future reference. Using our tool you’re able to create as many Collections of stories as you like.
READ OFFLINE

Download your digital edition on mobile device and read it anywhere.
PRINT

Print articles and crosswords anytime you need.
BACK ISSUES

Yesterday’s paper or other back issues are just a click away.
TRANSLATE

Our new tool offers instant translation in multiple languages for most articles and even full publications.
ALERT

Receive an email alert as soon as the current issue of your favourite publication is available.
PLATFORM-WIDE

Want to access your favourite newspaper on your mobile device? Download the app.
Access our publications on any device

Read stories in your news feed on one device and pick up where you left off on another. Subscribe and authorize your devices with one account.



About Us

Mail Online is the planet’s biggest and best loved English language news website, reaching over 225 million unique monthly visitors with 75 million of those visitors coming from the United States. With newsrooms in New York and Los Angeles, DailyMail.com publishes hundreds of stories daily, using its huge home page to deliver the breaking news, entertainment and celebrity content people need and want to know.

dmg media is the consumer media company of DMGT plc. Since the Daily Mail was first published in the closing stages of the 19th century, our brands have been pioneers of popular journalism, attracting the media industry’s best talent and reaching new audiences with new technologies. Throughout that time, dmg media’s brands have benefited from the stewardship of one family, holding fast to the editorial values that have made ours the most successful news media brands of the past century.


© Associated Newspapers Ltd. Part of the Daily Mail, The Mail on Sunday & Metro Media Group.
Contact Us

  DailyMail.com, 51 Astor Place 9th Floor, New York, NY 10003

  dmg media, Northcliffe House, 2 Derry Street, London, W8 5TT

  news@dailymail.co.uk

  +1 212 402 9090

  +44 (0)20 7938 6000

  Mon-Sun (9.00am – 6.00pm)

