The Economist
Subscribe
Enterprise
Log in
The Economist
Skip to content
Subscribe
Enterprise
Log in

    Weekly edition
    The world in brief
    War in the Middle East
    War in Ukraine
    United States
    The world economy
    Business
    Artificial intelligence
    Archive 1945
    Games

Leaders | Trade restrictions v ingenuity
Xi Jinping’s weaponisation of rare-earth elements will ultimately backfire
How the West can break China’s grip on these vital minerals
An industrial excavator with the head of a Chinese dragon, biting down on metallic looking rocks
Illustration: Danielle Del Plato
Aug 13th 2025
|5 min read

Soon after the blockade started, the panic began. When China choked off the export of rare-earth elements in April, producers and politicians around the world were quick to sound the alarm. The country provides 90% of the world’s supply of refined rare earths, used to make the strong magnets inside almost anything with an electric motor, from vacuum cleaners to cars. Ford halted a factory line in Chicago; carmakers in India and Japan curtailed production. The car industry is in “panic mode”, said one boss. Ursula von der Leyen, head of the European Commission, thundered against China’s “dominance” and “blackmail”.
Already have an account?Log in
Continue with a free trial
Get full access to global reporting that goes beyond the news cycle—for free
Free trial
Or create a free account to unlock just this article
Create account
Explore more
Leaders
Opinion
China
Reuse this content
the-economist-today
The Economist today
Handpicked stories, in your inbox

A daily newsletter with the best of our journalism
Yes, I agree to receive exclusive content, offers and updates to products and services from The Economist Group. I can change these preferences at any time.
More from Leaders
This illustration shows a transition from a simple white wireframe cube (on the left) to a colorful, pixelated 3D cube (on the right). The left side is black-and-white with scattered pixels, while the right side is vibrant with solid colors (green, blue, p
Will an astronomical anomaly challenge the idea of scientific revolutions?

Not everything is a paradigm shift
This illustration shows a man from behind holding a puzzle piece, trying to complete a puzzle. Around him, three other men are interacting: one is handing over a piece, another is whispering in his ear, and the third is typing on a laptop
McKinsey and its peers need a new strategy. And some humility

AI could make consultancy more effective—or redundant
Why Israel must hold itself to account

And how it can be made to do so
Buy now, pay later gets a bad rap. But it could be useful

Provided lenders open up
Donald Trump’s awful trade policy will outlast him

He thinks America is winning. It is not
America is easing chip-export controls at exactly the wrong time

The ban on sales to China was working, and should be kept in place

Get The Economist app on iOS or Android
The Economist

    About
    Reuse our content
    Subscribe
    Economist Enterprise
    SecureDrop

The Economist Group

    The Economist Group
    Economist Intelligence
    Economist Impact
    Economist Impact Events
    Economist Education Courses

Contact

    Help and support
    Advertise
    Press centre

Careers

    Working here
    Executive Jobs

To enhance your experience and ensure our website runs smoothly, we use cookies and similar technologies.

    Terms of use
    Privacy
    Cookie Policy
    Accessibility
    Modern Slavery Statement
    Sitemap

    Your Privacy Choices

Registered in England and Wales. No. 236383 | Registered office: The Adelphi, 1-11 John Adam Street, London, WC2N 6HT | VAT Reg No: GB 340 436 876

© The Economist Newspaper Limited 2025


