
Skip to main content
Skip to navigation
Support the Guardian
Fund independent journalism with £12 per month
Support us
Print subscriptions
Search jobs
Sign in
The Guardian - Back to home
The Guardian

    News
    Opinion
    Sport
    Culture
    Lifestyle

Show more

    Business
    Economics
    Banking
    Money
    Markets
    Project Syndicate
    B2B
    Retail

Business

    People walk near a Nike store in Beijing, China, 11 August.
    Live
    US and China extend 90-day tariff truce; UK unemployment rate steady as vacancies fall
    Tariff truce staves off triple-digit duties as US retailers start stockpiling for holiday season; UK labour market slows as employers hold off hiring
    5m ago
        Stock markets
        Trump’s China trade truce extension spurs rally
        UK jobs market
        Firms cut back on bonuses and hiring as slowdown hits labour market
        Australia
        RBS cuts interest rates to 3.6% – and flags potential for two or three more
        Trade
        Trump sparks concern after suggesting Nvidia can sell advanced AI chips in China

    Santander logo
    Mortgages
    Santander borrowing cap jumps by as much as 24% as bank eases lending rules
        ‘Do not buy these flats’
        Residents warn about unbearable heat inside London new-builds

    England players celebrate with the Euros trophy under gold ticker tape
    Retail industry
    Warm weather and England’s Euros success lifted UK sales in July
    Sunnier picture clouded by warning that mooted higher taxes could lead to shop closures and job losses
    4h ago

    Meghan stands in a kitchen next to a fruit platter shaped like a rainbow
    Netflix
    Harry and Meghan sign new multi-year film and TV deal
        US media
        Paramount pays $7.7bn for exclusive US rights deal with UFC
    Man holds up large data sheet
    US labour statistics
    Trump nominates Heritage Foundation economist as boss
    9h ago

    People walk in and out or past The Entertainer shop in Ipswich , Suffolk.
    Retail
    The Entertainer founder to hand over UK’s biggest toy shop chain to staff
        Toys
        UK sales rise as nostalgic adults turn to Pokémon and Lego
    A dense bloom of moon jellyfish
    Energy
    Swarm of jellyfish shuts nuclear power plant in France

    Wind tubines in the sea with a boat in the foreground
    Energy
    Wind generator Ørsted blames Trump as shares sink to all-time low
    Freddo chocolate bars.
    Food and drink
    Freddo bar creator would be ‘rolling in his grave’ at its price today, daughter says

    All stories
    Get the Business Today email

Opinion & analysis

    Polly Toynbee

Both left and right agree taxes must rise. Time for Labour to get creative
Polly Toynbee
1h ago
…
comments
People grapple with umbrellas as the wind and rain take hold

    Why Peak China may finally have arrived
    George Magnus

    A man shops for dairy products for sale

Trump is losing his foolish trade war. This will cost ordinary Americans greatly
Steven Greenhouse
…
comments
Commuters wait for an Elizabeth line train in London.
Want to know what’s going right in Britain? Come to the capital, look at the Elizabeth line railway
Jonn Elledge

    …
    comments

    Nigel Farage

Labour should beware Nigel Farage weaponising its part in the cost of living crisis
Richard Partington
Mark Carney
Editorial
The Guardian view on climate finance: crumbling under a second Trump presidency

    …
    comments

    hot flat blocks
    Overheated homes
    Why UK housing is dangerously unprepared for impact of climate crisis
    Unemployed man packing his belongings

    Planning to post a video of your layoff online? You may want to think twice
    Gene Marks

More news

    Sheffield Wednesday fans protest against the owner, Dejphon Chansiri, at Leicester on Sunday.
    Football
    John Textor teams up with football financier in push to buy Sheffield Wednesday
    Queuing traffic on the M1 motorway near junction 25
    Transport
    UK ministers urged to do more to protect new drivers in road safety overhaul
        ‘Basic common sense’
        Readers respond to plan for mandatory eye tests for UK drivers over 70

    The Prince Charles cinema with ‘Damn the man, save the PCC’ up on its billboard
    London
    Prince Charles cinema looks to expand to second venue in east London
    He stands smiling in front of the plant section
    Retail
    B&Q boss urges Reeves to end tax breaks that favour online Chinese rivals

    A brick block of flats with ‘to let’ and ‘for sale’ signs outside
    Housing
    Average private rent in Great Britain falls for first time in five years
    a sign on a structure reads 'perdue'
    Environment
    Waste from agricultural plant poisoned US town’s water with Pfas, lawsuits allege

Paid content
About


The Digital Workspace, Reimagined

    Apprentice aircraft maintenance engineer in maintenance hangar
    UK skills
    Remote troubleshooting to AR walkthroughs: how tech is boosting companies hit by the skills gap
    Smiling Portrait of a Beautiful Latin Female Industrial Engineer in White Hard Hat, High-Visibility Vest Working on Tablet Computer. Inspector or Safety Supervisor in Container Terminal.
    Cybersecurity
    Stay cybersafe: how to remove the risk of ‘shadow IT’ and strengthen data security
    Confident young Asian woman with smartphone looking out through window while sitting in a cafe having coffee. Making a personal financial plans and investment decisions. Wealth management. Business, banking, finance and investment concept
    Career perspectives
    ‘Employees feel capable and connected’: the vital role played by good technology in job satisfaction
    hospital colleagues checking medical records database<br>staff nurse consulting ward doctor
    In the workplace
    Remote connections and augmented reality: how the digital is changing working lives for the better

Paid for by
Labs sponsor logo
Spotlight

    Supercat league.
    Artificial intelligence
    Cat soap operas and babies trapped in space: the ‘AI slop’ taking over YouTube
    Nearly one in 10 of the fastest growing channels globally consist of mass-produced, surreal AI-generated videos

In focus

    Salmata Ouattara and her fellow farmers explain about the Smart Valleys concept that has helped them with water control and boosting incomes.
    Growing pains
    Can rice production in Africa keep up with demand?
    A Topshop window display on Oxford Street, London
    Retail
    Topshop sets stage for high street return – but can it go beyond nostalgia?

    The appeal of a labrador puppy led one hopeful owner to a polished website where she lost £500.
    Scam watch
    Puppy peril: that dog you want to buy online may be a scam
    Group of men in red football kit lift their hands in the air and a trophy
    ‘A cornucopia’
    The coming football season will set a UK record for viewers and income

    A heat pump.
    Energy
    Cool Britannia: the heat pumps keeping pace with the UK’s wild weather
    A man in a suit speaks while seated in front of a US flag
    Technology
    OpenAI will not disclose GPT-5’s energy use. It could be higher than past models

    Gianni Infantino with the Club World Cup trophy.
    Football
    Could latest seismic legal challenge leave Fifa wobbling on its perch?
    A new scheme can mean investing in electric cars more affordable.
    Charging ahead
    Will the UK’s new electric vehicle grant work for you?

Multimedia

    Pete Songi on Rachel Reeves’s budget conundrum – cartoon
    Cartoon
    Pete Songi on Rachel Reeves’s economic conundrum

…
comments
Tariffs
Inside China’s fast-fashion factories as a US trade war looms
Podcast
25:30
Fiona Katauskas on Trump tariffs
Cartoon
Is Donald Trump delivering a masterclass in economic management?
…
comments
Josh Toussaint-Strauss investigates how we could house everyone in the world who needs somewhere to live
It's complicated
How to solve the global housing crisis
Video

    6:56

Your money

    A bed bug
    Booking.com ignored me after my bedbug nightmare
    2h ago

…
comments
CHIANG MAI, THAILAND - Sep 25 2016 : Android device Showing Airbnb application on the screen. Airbnb is a website for people to<br>H29HY2 CHIANG MAI, THAILAND - Sep 25 2016 : Android device Showing Airbnb application on the screen. Airbnb is a website for people to
Airbnb added to the shame I felt after suffering years of domestic abuse
A sign calling for student loan debt relief outside the Supreme Court, 2023.
People in the US: have you been affected by interest resuming on student loan debt under the Save plan?
A roof terrace, in Soho London, with views to the London Eye and beyond.
Homes for sale with a roof terrace in England and Scotland – in pictures
Gallery

    5

Most viewed

    Most viewed in business
    Most viewed Across the guardian

Most viewed in business

UK employers cut back on bonuses and hiring as economic slowdown hits jobs market
Warm weather and England’s Euros success lifted UK retail sales in July
Freddo bar creator would be ‘rolling in his grave’ at its price today, daughter says
Live
US and China extend 90-day tariff truce; UK unemployment rate steady as vacancies fall – business live
Why Peak China may finally have arrived
Wind generator Ørsted blames Trump as shares sink to all-time low
‘I feel 20 years younger’: the joy of driving a convertible
Planning to post a video of your layoff online? You may want to think twice
The Entertainer founder to hand over UK’s biggest toy shop chain to staff

    B&Q boss urges Reeves to end tax breaks that favour online Chinese rivals

Explore more on these topics

    Economics
    Donald Trump
    Retail industry
    Energy
    Rachel Reeves

    Business
    Economics
    Banking
    Money
    Markets
    Project Syndicate
    B2B
    Retail

    News
    Opinion
    Sport
    Culture
    Lifestyle

Original reporting and incisive analysis, direct from the Guardian every morning
Sign up for our email

    About us
    Help
    Complaints & corrections
    SecureDrop
    Work for us
     
    Privacy policy
    Cookie policy
    Terms & conditions
    Contact us

    All topics
    All writers
    Modern Slavery Act
    Tax strategy
    Digital newspaper archive
    Facebook
    YouTube
    Instagram
    LinkedIn
    Newsletters

    Advertise with us
    Guardian Labs
    Search jobs
    Patrons
    Tips
    Accessibility settings

Back to top
© 2025 Guardian News & Media Limited or its affiliated companies. All rights reserved. (dcr)

