
Skip to content
Skip to site index
Your Money
Subscribe for £0.50/week
Log in

Decades After a Plant Closes, Waste Remains

By Ron Stodghill

    July 29, 2007

IN the summer of 2005, around the time that residents of Upper Ringwood, N.J., began to wonder whether the skin rashes, nose bleeds and bronchitis that plagued their community were more than bad luck, the Ford Motor Company and the Environmental Protection Agency made a request: the automaker and the regulator wanted access to the yards around two families’ homes to remove waste that had been dumped in the area. Ford boasts in its ads that “It’s Easy Being Green,” but residents feared the request suggested something not so easy at all. From the mid-1950s to the late 1970s, Ford operated an assembly plant in northern New Jersey, in nearby Mahwah, that cranked out millions of passenger cars. Ford closed the plant in 1980, after dumping what the E.P.A. describes as thousands of tons of paint sludge and other waste in Upper Ringwood, a community of about 350 working-class residents located in the foothills of the Ramapo Mountains.

A few years later, the Environmental Protection Agency identified Upper Ringwood for priority cleanup under its Superfund program. Ford, deemed responsible for the pollution, spent the next five years assessing and removing sludge from a 500-acre site that included 50 homes. Satisfied with Ford’s cleanup, the E.P.A. dropped Upper Ringwood as a Superfund site in 1994, having determined, according to a public notice, that “no further cleanup by responsible parties is appropriate” and that “the current risk posed by the site is within an acceptable range.”

Yet recently, based on Ford’s and the E.P.A.’s own recent follow-up studies of the soil and groundwater in Upper Ringwood, those conclusions unraveled and became fodder in what environmental experts say is now among the messiest industrial cleanup efforts in Superfund’s 27-year history.

Subscribe to The Times to read as many articles as you like.
See more on: Ford Motor Company

Related Coverage

National Problem, Local Nightmare
March 6, 2015
Explore Our Business and Tech Coverage
Dive deeper into the people, issues and trends shaping the worlds of business and technology.

    Uber’s Sexual Assault Problem: The company has tested tools that make rides safer, court records show. Measures to stem the violence have been set aside in favor of protecting the company’s business.

    ‘Hard Tech’ Era: Goodbye to the age of consumer websites and mobile apps. Artificial intelligence has ushered in an era of what insiders in the nation’s innovation capital call “hard tech.”

    Netflix’s Biggest Gamble: Brandon Riegg pushed the streaming service to invest in live shows and sports, transforming the company into something more like a traditional TV network.

    A Garbage Disposal for Emissions: A business called Northern Lights is seen as a model for efforts to pump carbon dioxide deep into wells, but high costs remain an obstacle.

    Monopoly on U.S. Fire Retardant: Perimeter Solutions sought to undercut rivals, leaving federal officials worried about their reliance on a single company for a crucial product.

Related Content
More in Your Money

    Why Hands-Off Investing Pays Off
    Help! Delta Deserted Us After an Emergency Landing in the Azores.
    SKIP ADVERTISEMENT
    Can This New ‘Elite’ Travel Card Compete With Amex and Chase?
    How Does a Rewards Start-Up Know What Credit Cards Are in Your Wallet?
    Want to Study Welding or Prepare for the Bar Exam? You Can Now Use a 529 Plan.

Editors’ Picks

    We’re Just Here for the Sex, Please
    The Rise of the Little White Dress
    Stone Stacks Look Cute on Instagram. His Mission Is to Kick Them Over.
    Stuart Cox, who lives near the Mam Tor hiking trail southeast of Manchester, England, destroys stone stacks that are harmful to the area’s habitat and ancient structures.

Trending in The Times

    Trump and Putin Put on a Show of Friendship but Come Away Without a Deal
    Opinion: What Was the Trump-Putin Meeting Even About?
    6 Takeaways From Trump’s Meeting With Putin
    Why Cristiano Ronaldo’s Engagement Raised Eyebrows in Saudi Arabia
    Why Putin Thinks Russia Has the Upper Hand
    Tourist ‘Is in Trouble’ After Stones Taken From Pompeii, Police Say
    You Can Fix Those Annoying Plug Outlets
    Fact-Checking Trump’s Epstein Defenses
    Israel Hasn’t Prosecuted a Single Suspect for the Oct. 7 Attack
    May I Confront My Sister About Excluding My Fiancée From Her Wedding Album?

Advertisement
SKIP ADVERTISEMENT
Site Index
Site Information Navigation

    © 2025 The New York Times Company

    NYTCoContact UsAccessibilityWork with usAdvertiseT Brand StudioYour Ad ChoicesPrivacy PolicyTerms of ServiceTerms of SaleSite MapHelpSubscriptions

    Manage Privacy Preferences

Create a free account, or log in.
Enjoy limited free articles, news alerts, select newsletters, podcasts and some daily games.

Enjoy unlimited access to all of The Times.

See subscription options

