
Skip to content
Skip to site index
Business
Subscribe for £0.50/week
Log in

Ford's Lending Practices Challenged in a Lawsuit

By Jeremy W. Peters and Danny Hakim

    March 1, 2005

DETROIT, Feb. 28 - Ford Motor Credit, the division of Ford Motor Company that makes car loans, is being taken to court in a class-action suit contending that the company's lending practices allow dealers to discriminate against minorities.

In the first trial over discriminatory practices in auto lending, a federal judge in Nashville will begin hearing a case on Tuesday that accuses Ford dealers of discriminating against minorities by tacking on additional percentage points that raise the overall interest rate on their loans.

In the practice, known as markups, dealers charge an interest rate higher than a lending institution would offer and either pocket the difference or split it with the lender. Attorneys for the plaintiffs said research shows that minorities are often subject to higher markups than nonminorities.

Ford Motor Credit is not the first lender to be accused of indirect bias when lending money to minorities. The financing divisions of General Motors, Nissan and Honda have all settled similar suits before they went to trial, as have other lending companies.

Automakers say they do not consider race in setting their loan rates, but the suits accuse them of turning a blind eye to the higher markup rates dealers charge minorities.

Ford agreed last year to cap its dealer markups at no more than 2.5 percentage points above the rate the lender would charge, the same cap that G.M. agreed to as part of its settlement last year. But that did not satisfy consumer groups and lawyers, which would like to see Ford eliminate the markups altogether.

Subscribe to The Times to read as many articles as you like.
A version of this article appears in print on March 1, 2005, Section C, Page 2 of the National edition with the headline: Ford's Lending Practices Challenged in a Lawsuit. Order Reprints | Today’s Paper | Subscribe
See more on: Ford Motor Company

Explore Our Business and Tech Coverage
Dive deeper into the people, issues and trends shaping the worlds of business and technology.

    Uber’s Sexual Assault Problem: The company has tested tools that make rides safer, court records show. Measures to stem the violence have been set aside in favor of protecting the company’s business.

    ‘Hard Tech’ Era: Goodbye to the age of consumer websites and mobile apps. Artificial intelligence has ushered in an era of what insiders in the nation’s innovation capital call “hard tech.”

    Netflix’s Biggest Gamble: Brandon Riegg pushed the streaming service to invest in live shows and sports, transforming the company into something more like a traditional TV network.

    A Garbage Disposal for Emissions: A business called Northern Lights is seen as a model for efforts to pump carbon dioxide deep into wells, but high costs remain an obstacle.

    Monopoly on U.S. Fire Retardant: Perimeter Solutions sought to undercut rivals, leaving federal officials worried about their reliance on a single company for a crucial product.

Related Content
More in Business

    Frank Savage, 87, Business Leader Entangled in Enron Scandal, Is Dead
    Frank Savage in the early 1990s while he was an executive with Equitable Capital Management Corporation.
    Why Hands-Off Investing Pays Off
    SKIP ADVERTISEMENT
    Larry Ellison Wants to Do Good, Do Research and Make a Profit
    Larry Ellison said he would spend one billion pounds to build a campus and sponsor 20 fellowships at Oxford each year.
    Why Investors Are Again Euphoric About Interest Rates
    China’s Automakers Are Taking a Shortcut to European Markets
    The BYD Explorer No. 1, carrying 5,000 electric cars, at a stop in Singapore last year on its way to the Netherlands.

Editors’ Picks

    We’re Just Here for the Sex, Please
    The Rise of the Little White Dress
    Stone Stacks Look Cute on Instagram. His Mission Is to Kick Them Over.
    Stuart Cox, who lives near the Mam Tor hiking trail southeast of Manchester, England, destroys stone stacks that are harmful to the area’s habitat and ancient structures.

Trending in The Times

    Trump and Putin Put on a Show of Friendship but Come Away Without a Deal
    Opinion: What Was the Trump-Putin Meeting Even About?
    Why Putin Thinks Russia Has the Upper Hand
    6 Takeaways From Trump’s Meeting With Putin
    Why Cristiano Ronaldo’s Engagement Raised Eyebrows in Saudi Arabia
    Tourist ‘Is in Trouble’ After Stones Taken From Pompeii, Police Say
    Fact-Checking Trump’s Epstein Defenses
    Israel Hasn’t Prosecuted a Single Suspect for the Oct. 7 Attack
    You Can Fix Those Annoying Plug Outlets
    May I Confront My Sister About Excluding My Fiancée From Her Wedding Album?

Advertisement
SKIP ADVERTISEMENT
Site Index
Site Information Navigation

    © 2025 The New York Times Company

    NYTCoContact UsAccessibilityWork with usAdvertiseT Brand StudioYour Ad ChoicesPrivacy PolicyTerms of ServiceTerms of SaleSite MapHelpSubscriptions

    Manage Privacy Preferences

Create a free account, or log in.
Enjoy limited free articles, news alerts, select newsletters, podcasts and some daily games.

Enjoy unlimited access to all of The Times.

See subscription options

