Skip to Article
syracuse’s Logo
Unlimited Digital Access - Start Today for $1

    Business

Aldi pays $9.8 million in Syracuse-based overtime lawsuit

    Updated: Feb. 01, 2019, 5:06 p.m.|Published: Feb. 01, 2019, 12:11 p.m.

Aldi storefront
An Aldi storefront.

By

    Douglass Dowty | ddowty@syracuse.com

Syracuse, NY -- Complaints from local Aldi store managers led to a nationwide lawsuit that ended recently in a $9.8 million settlement in local federal court.

Fayetteville attorney Frank Gattuso launched legal action in 2016 on behalf of Central New York employees of the discount grocery chain. There are 10 Aldi locations in Onondaga County alone.

The employees accused the store of paying them a flat salary for doing the same work as hourly employees, who were eligible for overtime pay. The managers were working 60 to 70 hours a week for an average pay of about $80,000, Gattuso said.

Aldi denied that its managers were required to be paid overtime. The settlement did not include a court order that Aldi change its practices, Gattuso said. Aldi had been sued before for the practice and could be sued again, he said.

A call for Aldi managers nationwide to join the lawsuit netted about 360 clients, Gattuso said. Each of those managers had to actively request to be a party in the lawsuit. A separate class of about 160 Aldi managers in New York State also won damages. Under New York law, the time frame for damages went back further -- 6 years, as opposed to 3 years under federal law -- and included all managers unless they opted out of the lawsuit, Gattuso said.

Payouts to each manager ranged widely based on length of employment. The highest payout to a single employee was over $20,000, Gattuso said. Some received very small payouts because they had only worked for Aldi for a brief period of time.

Gattuso was joined by nearly a dozen other attorneys across the state and beyond as the case grew. A final settlement was reached in late 2018 and payouts are beginning now, Gattuso said.

If you purchase a product or register for an account through a link on our site, we may receive compensation. By using this site, you consent to our User Agreement and agree that your clicks, interactions, and personal information may be collected, recorded, and/or stored by us and social media and other third-party partners in accordance with our Privacy Policy.
Visit the syracuse.com The Post-Standard home page
About Us

    About Us
    Photo and Page Reprints
    Advertise with us
    Jobs at Advance Media New York
    Contact Us
    Newspaper Archives
    Frequently Asked Questions
    Accessibility Statement
    Submit letter, commentary

Subscriptions

    syracuse.com
    syracuse.com Orange Sports Insider
    The Post-Standard
    Email Newsletters

Already a Subscriber

    Manage your Subscription
    Place a Vacation Hold
    Make a Payment
    Delivery Feedback

syracuse.com Sections

    News
    Weather
    Business
    Sports
    High School Sports
    Betting
    Entertainment
    Living
    Opinion
    Obituaries
    Jobs
    Autos
    Real Estate
    Rentals
    Classifieds

Mobile

    Tablet Apps
    iPhone, Android apps

More on syracuse.com

    Videos
    Sitemap
    Sponsor Content
    Archives
    Sell your car
    Post a job
    Post a classified ad
    Sell/rent your home

Follow Us

    Twitter
    Instagram
    Facebook
    YouTube
    RSS

    Privacy Policy
    |User Agreement
    |Ad Choices iconAd Choices

Advance Local logo

Use of and/or registration on any portion of this site constitutes acceptance of our User Agreement, (updated 8/1/2024) and acknowledgement of our Privacy Policy, and Your Privacy Choices and Rights (updated 7/1/2025).

© 2025 Advance Local Media LLC. All rights reserved (About Us).
The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Advance Local.

Community Rules apply to all content you upload or otherwise submit to this site.

YouTube's privacy policy is available here and YouTube's terms of service is available here.

Ad Choices iconAd Choices

