People standing in front of a Coca-Cola advert. One person with a white vest an moustache is passing a large drum that he is carrying on his head to another person.
Coca-Cola is one of the most recognisable brands in the world. The company claims to adhere to the "highest ethical standards" and to be "an outstanding corporate citizen in every community we serve". Yet Coca-Cola's activities around the world tell a different story.

Coca-Cola has been accused of dehydrating communities in its pursuit of water resources to feed its own plants, drying up farmers' wells and destroying local agriculture. The company has also violated workers' rights in countries such as Colombia, Turkey, Guatemala and Russia. Only through its multi-million dollar marketing campaigns can Coca-Cola sustain the clean image it craves.

The company admits that without water it would have no business at all. Coca-Cola's operations rely on access to vast supplies of water, as it takes almost three litres of water to make one litre of Coca-Cola. In order to satisfy this need, Coca-Cola is increasingly taking over control of aquifers in communities around the world. These vast subterranean chambers hold water resources collected over many hundreds of years. As such they the represent the heritage of entire communities.

Coca-Cola's operations have particularly been blamed for exacerbating water shortages in regions that suffer from a lack of water resources and rainfall. Nowhere has this been better documented than in India, where there are now community campaigns against the company in several states. research carried out by War on Want in the Indian states of Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh affirms the findings from Kerala and Maharastra that Coca-Cola's activities are having a serious negative impact on farmers and local communities.

Coca-Cola established a bottling plant in the village of Kaladera in Rajasthan at the end of 1999. Rajasthan is well known as a desert state, and Kaladera is a small, impoverished village characterised by semi-arid conditions. Farmers rely on access to groundwater for the cultivation of their crops. but since Coca-Cola's arrival, they have been confronted with a serious decline in water levels. Locals are increasingly unable to irrigate their lands and sustain their crops, putting whole families at risk of losing their livelihoods.

Local villagers testify that Coca-Cola's arrival exacerbated an already precarious situation. Official documents from the government's water ministry show that water levels remained stable from 1995 until 2000, when the Coca-Cola plant became operational. Water levels then dropped by almost 10 metres over the following five years. Locals fear Kaladera could become a 'dark zone', the term used to describe areas that are abandoned due to depleted water resources.

Other communities in India that live and work around Coca-Cola's bottling plants are experiencing severe water shortages as well as environmental damage. Local villagers near the holy city of Varanasi in Uttar Pradesh complain that the company's over-exploitation of water resources has taken a heavy toll on their harvests and led to the drying up of wells. As in Rajasthan and Kerala, villagers have held protests against the local Coca-Cola plant for its appropriation of valuable water resources.

In the now infamous case of Plachimada in the southern state of Kerala, Coca-Cola's plant was forced to close down in March 2004 after the village council refused to renew the company's licence, on the grounds that it had over-used and contaminated local water resources. Four months earlier, the Kerala High Court had ruled that Coca-Cola's heavy extraction from the common groundwater resource was illegal, and ordered it to seek alternative sources for its production.

In 2003 the independent Centre for Science and Environment tested Coca-Cola beverages and found levels of pesticides around 30 times higher than European Union standards. Levels of DDT, which is banned in agriculture in India, were nine times higher than the EU limit. In February 2004 Indian MPs who investigated CSE's studies upheld these findings and the Parliament went on to ban Coca-Cola from its cafeterias.

Besides these issues, War on Want's Alternative Report on Coca-Cola also details how Coca-Cola is having a devastating impact of water resources elsewhere. In El Salvador, the company has been accused of exhausting water resources over a 25-year period. In Chiapas, Coca-Cola is positioning itself to take control of the water resources. The Mexican government under Vicente Fox - himself a former President of Coca-Cola Mexico - has given the company concessions to exploit community water resources.

Coca-Cola's own workers have also suffered and the company is being increasingly associated with anti-union activities. The most notable case is in Colombia, where paramilitaries have killed eight Coca-Cola workers since 1990. The main Coca-Cola trade union Sinaltrainal is seeking to hold Coca-Cola liable for using paramilitaries to engage in anti-union violence.

Coca-Cola is being sued on behalf of transport workers and their families for its part in the alleged intimidation and torture of trade unionists and their families by special branch police in Turkey. In Nicaragua, workers of the main Coca-Cola union SUTEC have been denied the right to organise and the General Secretary of SUTEC, Daniel Reyes, believes the objective of this ongoing and escalating campaign is to crush the union.

Guatemalan workers have been struggling against Coca-Cola since the 1970s. In the years between 1976 and 1985, three general secretaries of the main union were assassinated and members of their families, friends and legal advisers were threatened, arrested, kidnapped, shot, tortured and forced into exile. The violations of workers' rights continue. And Coca-Cola workers and their family members, with ties to unions, have reportedly been subjected to death threats. Elsewhere in countries such as Peru, Russia and Chile, Coca-Cola workers have been protesting against the company's anti-union policies. Coca-Cola claims to exist "to benefit and refresh everyone it touches" and to try to sustain this positive image, the company spends $2 billion a year on advertising alone. Yet there are signs that the image is beginning to crumble. The relay carrying the Olympic flame was repeatedly disrupted by protests at Coca-Cola's role as the principal sponsor, with the Turin council actually declaring the city a no-go zone for the company (a decision subsequently overruled by the mayor).

University campuses throughout the USA and Europe have voted to cancel contracts with Coca-Cola in protest at its operations, and in solidarity with the community resistance which has escalated in many countries across the world. It is up to us to keep up the pressure on Coca-Cola and also send a strong message to our elected leaders to rein in irresponsible business practices.
Share this page

An inquiry by the Fair Work Ombudsman (FWO), which launched after media reports revealed the extent of underpayments made by franchisees, found several store owners had deliberately falsified records to disguise wage underpayments.

Between September 2015 and February 2020, 7-Eleven back-paid more than $176.3 million in wages, interest and superannuation to 4,043 current and former franchisee employees.

The FWO said 7-Eleven voluntarily entered into a Compliance Deed in December 2016 to improve compliance across its network.

The deed was a recommendation from the ombudsman's inquiry into the stores, which found significant underpayments to 7-Eleven staff.

The ombudsman's inquiry found several 7-Eleven franchisees had deliberately falsified records to disguise wage underpayments and that 7-Eleven's approach to workplace matters did not detect or address deliberate non-compliance.

The FWO brought 11 lawsuits against 7-Eleven franchisees resulting in courts awarding more than $1.8 million in penalties against them.

The penalties included franchisees operating unlawful cash-back schemes, paying unlawful flat rates to workers, and falsifying records.
Bike riders passing a 7-Eleven store

Improvements to payroll and time-recording systems have cost 7-Eleven operators at least $10 million. (ABC News: Margaret Burin)

Improvements owners have put in place include a biometric time recording system across all its Australian stores, requiring employees to clock-in and out with a thumbprint.

That was then cross-checked against employee facial recognition images and store rosters to enable more accurate recording of working hours.

The improved technology cost more than $10 million.

Other measures include 7-Eleven requiring all staff to be paid electronically, new compulsory online training on employment conditions for new employees, an Internal Investigations Unit and a new employment conditions chapter in the Franchisee Systems Manual.

The compliance partnership with the FWO also required 7-Eleven to engage an independent expert to complete three annual audits of its compliance with workplace laws.

The first audit in 2017 led to back-payments of $102,167.

No further underpayments were identified in the second and third annual audits.

Fair Work Ombudsman Sandra Parker said the compliance partnership had led to network-wide improvement to protect the workplace rights of current and future employees.

"We urge all head offices to prioritise compliance with workplace laws or risk systemic breaches that impact their brand and workforce," Ms Parker said.

    "Franchisors can now be held responsible for their franchisees' conduct and may be subject to enforcement action, court proceedings and penalties if their franchisees have breached the law."

7-Eleven Australia chief executive Angus McKay said in a statement he welcomed the release of FWO's compliance partnership report.

"Since 2015, we have continued to undertake independent reviews and audits [and] make improvements to our systems and processes," Mr McKay said.

"With ongoing support from staff across our network, we are incredibly pleased with the progress we have continued to make."

Bear these things in mind when using your hands to navigate Apple Vision Pro:

    Use Apple Vision Pro in a well-lit area and make sure it’s clean and free of smudges.

    You don’t have to hold your arm up when you interact with Apple Vision Pro. You can rest your hand comfortably on your desk or in your lap when making most gestures.

    Make sure your hands are visible to Apple Vision Pro and not hidden under a desk or a blanket.

    Gloves, long sleeves or large jewellery that covers a significant part or all of your hands can affect how Apple Vision Pro tracks your gestures. If you’re experiencing any issues when using gestures, try removing these items.

    Don‘t cross your hands or cover up your gesturing hand with your other hand.

Tap your thumb and finger together to select an item

To select an item in Apple Vision Pro, look at an element and tap your thumb and index finger together.

Tapping your thumb and index finger together is like tapping something on your iPhone or clicking something on your Mac – use this gesture to select an app, open a link in Safari, select and view notifications, and more.
Pinch and drag to move items around

To move items around in Apple Vision Pro, look at an item and then pinch your thumb and index finger together. Hold your thumb and finger together as you move the item to where you want it, then let go.

Use the pinch-and-drag gesture to do things such as arranging apps using their window bar, resizing a shape in Freeform or dragging an image from Photos into an iMessage. You can also pinch and drag to scroll slowly and precisely through content.
Pinch and flick your wrist to scroll

To move or scroll quickly through content, pinch your thumb and index finger together, flick your wrist up or down, then let go in one smooth motion.

Use this gesture to do things such as moving horizontally through your apps in Home View, scrolling through a long web page or browsing in Photos.
Look at your palm and tap to open Home View

Place your hand in front of you, palm facing in. When the button appears, tap to open Home View.
Look at your palm, then flip your hand to see Control Centre

Place your hand in front of you, palm facing in. When the button appears, flip your hand over so your palm is facing out to show a simple status bar with the current time and battery level. Tap again and Control Centre will open, giving you quick access to frequently used features, such as Notifications, Mac Virtual Display and more.

While looking at the status bar, pinch and hold your fingers together and move them side to side to adjust volume.

To open Control Centre in an earlier version of visionOS, look up, then tap the Control Centre Buttonnull that appears. If you have visionOS 2 or later and you want to be able to open Control Centre with either a gesture or by looking up, go to Settings > Accessibility > Interaction, then turn on Look Upwards for Control Centre.
Pinch and hold to see more options

Pinch and hold an item in Apple Vision Pro to see more options. Look at an item, tap and hold your thumb and index finger together. When you see more options, let go and then tap to select the option you want.

Use this gesture to show link previews in Safari, hide other apps by pinching and holding one app’s close button, and more.
Touch

You can interact with certain elements in visionOS directly with your fingers. For example, when the visionOS virtual keyboard appears, you can type by touching the keys directly with one finger on each hand.
Find out more

Find out what to do if your Apple Vision Pro isn’t responding to gestures as expected.

LONDON — Kinita Shenoy ignored the first package. But then a second one arrived at her home in Colombo, Sri Lanka.

Inside were skin lightening creams made by Pond’s, the cosmetics brand owned by consumer product giant Unilever. As the editor-in-chief of Cosmopolitan magazine’s Sri Lanka edition from 2017 to 2018, Shenoy was used to freebies. But the gift box, sent in December 2017, left her confused. She had told Unilever marketers weeks before that she would never promote skin lighteners.

“I was really irked about it," she told BuzzFeed News, "but I decided to ignore it.”

Then Unilever staff started to text her, asking her to post about the products on social media. Irritated, Shenoy told her staff to post a story on her magazine’s Instagram account thanking Pond’s for the box.
Courtesy Kinita Shenoy

Shenoy's Instagram story.

But on her personal Instagram, she posted a different message.

“I appreciate the lovely packaging but I’m not really on board with the concept of ‘White Beauty,’” she wrote, blurring out Pond's brand name. “Aren’t we past the point where we tell wonderful, melanin-popping Asian women they need to make their skin look whiter?”

When Shenoy wrote her post, she had no idea Unilever representatives would unleash a pressure campaign on her employer for positive coverage of White Beauty products — one that would turn her life and career upside down, she later said, and lead to her leaving journalism altogether.

Shenoy's experience was not unique. Consumer product giants like Unilever, Johnson & Johnson, and Procter & Gamble exert a huge amount of influence over the fashion and beauty industries. In countries like Sri Lanka, among the most popular products these companies sell are skin whitening creams.

“All I said was that we shouldn't tell little girls to bleach themselves. It's not a radical thing to say,” Shenoy said. “This isn't a tacit thing. It's an intentional and violent way to deal with things.”

Cosmetics make up only some product lines for Unilever, a $140 billion consumer product company headquartered in London. But in South Asia, it's well-known for a skin whitening cream called Fair and Lovely, which like other whitening creams uses niacinamide to suppress melanin in the skin.

    “All I said was that we shouldn't tell little girls to bleach themselves.”

After years of pressure from campaigners and a new wave of criticism amid the Black Lives Matter movement, Unilever said in June it would stop using words like “whitening” to describe its products. Competitors including Johnson & Johnson and L’Oreal have recently taken similar steps. Unilever has stopped short of Johnson & Johnson's decision, announced on June 22, to cease selling two lines of its skin lightening products entirely.

But critics say changes in branding do not go far enough. Shenoy and others in Sri Lanka's fashion industry described intense pressure on journalists, models, influencers, and beauty pageant competitors to use and endorse skin lightening products.

In response to a list of detailed questions about this article, a Unilever spokesperson said the company met with Cosmopolitan Sri Lanka after Shenoy’s Instagram story to “have a constructive conversation and address any concerns.”

“In this meeting, a member of the team exercised extremely poor judgment by insisting that Cosmopolitan give the product positive editorial coverage,” the spokesperson added. “Unilever prides itself on always operating at the highest ethical standards and apologized for this significant misjudgment.”

Unilever now has a strong relationship with the magazine, she added.

In South Asia, skin whitening products are part of a colonial history in which people with fairer skin had better job, housing, and marriage prospects. Beginning in the 1970s, Unilever’s Fair and Lovely was among the first to foreign brands tap the market, and for decades advertised fair skin as the key to wealth and romance. But in recent years, a backlash against the products has grown from critics who say they promote discrimination against people with darker skin tones. Last month, after Unilever posted a Black Lives Matter message on Instagram, South Asians flooded the comments, calling the company hypocritical for selling Fair and Lovely.

On June 25, the company bowed to pressure — in a limited way. It's keeping the product on the market, but rebranding it as Glow and Lovely.

“Fair and Lovely is a holy grail product, and it has the largest distribution channels and reach in South Asia,” said Nina Davuluri, who was the first Indian American to be crowned Miss America and is at work on a documentary about skin lightening cosmetics. “How Unilever executes their rebranding strategy and new advertisement campaigns will be incredibly telling of their true intentions.”
Gemunu Amarasinghe / AP

Miss Sri Lanka Ornella Gunesekere (center) participates in the swimsuit and evening gown stage of the 67th Miss Universe competition in Bangkok, Dec. 13, 2018.

Like Shenoy, others in the beauty industry in Sri Lanka said they faced heavy pressure to use and endorse skin lightening products. Among them is Ornella Gunesekere, who won the Miss Universe Sri Lanka competition in 2018, but said she nearly lost her crown after refusing to endorse skin lightening products made by a Sri Lankan brand called Facia, the pageant’s chief sponsor. That year, a Facia representative made a presentation to the contestants, in which she used the n-word and also told them “dark skin is ugly” and ‘to win Miss Universe you have to be white,” according to three women who heard the presentation — Gunesekere, Natalee Fernando and Alma Erandi Weerasinghe.

“I was boiling. I could not believe it,” Gunesekere said.

Fernando, who was the second runner-up, was similarly livid.

“We could see her looking at the darker girls,” she said. “It was so awkward sitting in that room.”
Courtesy Ornella Gunesekere

A photo taken at a meeting with skincare company Facia.

Amanda Ferreira, assistant general manager for marketing at Alaris, the company that makes Facia products, said the representative, who conducted the presentation in the Sinhala language, had used the n-word, but wasn’t aware it was offensive.

“She was trying to explain how African countries use harmful bleaching products to whiten their skin, and we at Facia do not promote harmful skin whitening products,” Ferreira said, adding that the representative apologized at the time. The pageant contestants who spoke with BuzzFeed News also said that the representative walked back some of her remarks after several of the women objected.

Ferreira, who said she also attended the presentation, said the representative never said that dark skin is ugly or that to win Miss Universe, you have to be white.

The Miss Universe organization declined to offer an on-the-record comment on what took place.

All three women said they were shocked and, along with other contestants, began to argue with the Facia rep. Gunesekere, along with a few other contestants, wanted to drop out of the pageant. If she had at that stage, she would have been obligated to pay the pageant 500,000 Sri Lankan rupees ($2690) “as damages,” according to a contract seen by BuzzFeed News. She decided to stay after the representative apologized.

The winner of the pageant was set to appear in a TV ad for Facia. Gunesekere said that after she won, she told the company that she would not endorse skin whitening products. Only after she arrived at the screen test for the shoot did she learn the ad would include whitening creams, among its other products. She refused to take part in the ad and walked out. “We were asked to sell something we didn’t believe in at all,” said Fernando, who was also at the screen test. “Ornella and I spoke out at risk of getting kicked out of the pageant.”

    “The boys and girls coming up don’t know what to do. So you bleach your skin and try to become white.”

Afterward, a production company executive implied she could lose her crown, according to text messages Gunesekere shared with BuzzFeed News. Facia said it had never sought to remove her title. But it stopped sponsoring the pageant, and there has not been a Miss Universe Sri Lanka pageant since.

Publicly opposing skin whitening has career consequences in Sri Lanka, said Kalpanee Gunawardana, a model and entrepreneur who said she was also repeatedly approached to promote Pond’s White Beauty products and has refused. The blowback hasn’t been confined to beauty and cosmetics.

“When I started speaking out about colorism, clothing brands didn’t want to associate with me,” she said. “They said ‘she’s fussy, she’s a social justice warrior.’”

Tymo Carvalho, a Sri Lankan model and influencer, said only well-established models can refuse to promote skin whitening products.

“If you are already famous or if you’ve made a name for yourself in the industry, of course you can pick and choose what you promote,” he told BuzzFeed News. “But the boys and girls coming up don’t know what to do. So you bleach your skin and try to become white.”

“After a while, you realize what you’re doing is wrong,” he added.
Courtesy Kinita Shenoy

Shenoy (right) at a meeting.

After Unilever representatives in Sri Lanka saw Shenoy’s post about Pond’s White Beauty products, two of its executives in Sri Lanka told the magazine's publisher that she should either be fired or publish two pages in the magazine every six months describing how she used Pond’s skin whitening creams and encouraging other women to use them as well, according to Shenoy. If neither happened, they threatened to pull Unilever's ads from the magazine. Unilever did not directly respond to a question about whether its representatives had sought to have Shenoy fired.

Unilever was a major advertiser, and the publisher told her the magazine could go under if she didn’t give in, Shenoy said, but she stood firm.

“Unilever then retracted every single brand advertising for the publication,” said Shenoy. “It was a lot of money. They own a whole portfolio of brands.”

She was living, she said, in a “state of fear.” A review of Cosmopolitan Sri Lanka issues in 2018 shows ads for Unilever brands disappearing from the magazine between February and May, and resuming in June. Hearst did not respond to requests for comment.

Shenoy met Aritha Wickramasinghe, a lawyer specializing in international finance and LGBTQ rights, in February 2018, after she had fought with her publishers for weeks. He remembered that he had met Unilever CEO Paul Polman a couple of years before, at an awards dinner where Wickramasinghe was given a prize for his activism.

On Shenoy's behalf, Wickramasinghe wrote an email on Feb. 19, 2018, to Polman (which he later shared with BuzzFeed News).

    "I am sure you agree that this is shocking."

"I am sure you agree that this is shocking," wrote Wickramasinghe. "I hope you will be able to take decisive action on this matter so as to ensure that the rest of your organization abides by the values and principles you advocate."

Polman wrote back the next day to say that he was unaware of the incident, but would look into it. “Let’s get the facts and then see," he wrote. "At a minimum we should protect freedom of speech.”

Polman, who stepped down in 2018, did not return a request for comment.

Two days later Polman forwarded Wickramasinghe an email that Unilever Sri Lanka chair Carl Cruz wrote to Sanjiv Mehta, the head of Unilever’s subsidiary in India.

Cruz, who is now the managing director for Unilever West Africa, another major market for skin lightening products, did not return a request for comment.

In the email, Cruz said he had contacted the chair of Cosmopolitan magazine in Sri Lanka “to atone for the actions of colleagues in Unilever Sri Lanka.”

“I reiterated the fact that what transpired did not do justice to the high standards and values we all live by in Unilever,” he added, saying Unilever would resume advertising in Cosmopolitan Sri Lanka.

On top of the forwarded email, Polman wrote, “Issue closed. Thanks for pointing out. Warm regards.”

After the intervention from Unilever’s CEO, the company started buying ad space from Cosmopolitan Sri Lanka again.

    “Even now I am speaking up but I am afraid. I am afraid of what will happen.”

But Shenoy said her relationship with her bosses had permanently soured, and she left her job and journalism entirely in the spring of 2018.

El Indec informó este miércoles por la tarde que la inflación de julio 2025 fue de 1,9%, tres décimas por encima del 1,6% de junio, luego de que mayo registró el número más bajo en los últimos cinco años (1,5%). La leve aceleración mensual se debió al efecto de los aumentos estacionales de las vacaciones de invierno y de ciertos alimentos.

Julio fue el tercer mes consecutivo en el que Índice de Precios al Consumidor (IPC) se situó por debajo de 2%, como esperaban las consultoras privadas, que pronosticaron que el dato rondaría entre 1,6% y 2%.
Video
La inflación de julio fue del 1,9%

Acumuló un alza de 17,3% en los primeros siete meses de 2025 y 36,6% en la comparación interanual. En tanto, la inflación núcleo fue la más baja desde enero de 2018, cuando registró una marca de 1,7%: esta medición que sigue la evolución de los valores sin variaciones de estacionalidad y excluye a los precios regulados tuvo un avance de 1,5%.

El Gobierno celebró este logro. Javier Milei publicó un posteo en X donde calificó a Luis Caputo como “el mejor ministro de Economía de la historia por lejos”. En otra publicación, el titular del Palacio de Hacienda destacó que “se registraron 15 meses consecutivos de desaceleración en la comparación contra igual mes del año anterior y que esta variación interanual es la más baja desde diciembre de 2020”.
Los rubros con subas y bajas de precios

La categoría con el mayor incremento mensual fue la de recreación y cultura, con un salto de 4,8%, impulsada por las subas en servicios de entretenimiento y turísticos por el receso invernal.

Segunda se ubicó la división de transporte, con un alza de 2,8% por los aumentos en el transporte público y el mantenimiento de vehículos; mientras que restaurantes y hoteles quedaron terceros, con un incremento de 2,8% en coincidencia con las vacaciones.

En el otro extremo, se desaceleraron un 0,9% los precios de prendas de vestir y calzado, en concordancia con la liquidación de la temporada de invierno y las ofertas que las marcas lanzaron para competir con las compras en plataformas del exterior como Amazon, Shein y Temu.
Prendas de vestir y calzado tuvieron una desaceleración de 0,9%. Foto: archivoPrendas de vestir y calzado tuvieron una desaceleración de 0,9%. Foto: archivo

Por su parte, los alimentos y las bebidas no alcohólicas aumentaron en igual proporción que el nivel general, un 1,9%. Es el rubro con mayor peso en el índice, con un 23% en Buenos Aires. En zonas del Interior, la incidencia es incluso mayor. Impactó en el IPC general la aceleración de este segmento respecto de junio, cuando apenas había aumentado 0,6%.

En ese sentido, el organismo precisó que hubo subas destacadas en verduras, tubérculos y legumbres, carnes y derivados, y pan y cereales en el Gran Buenos Aires y las regiones Pampeana, Noreste, Noroeste y Cuyo, y apuntó que en la Patagonia, en cambio, la mayor incidencia provino del transporte.

El antecedente inmediato fue la aceleración de precios de la Ciudad, de 2,5% en julio que se conoció el lunes de la semana pasada. Fue la tercera suba consecutiva, tras el 2,1% de junio y el 1,6% de mayo. En ese caso, acumuló un aumento de 18,1% y 40,9% interanual.

La inflación en el último año

Fuente: INDEC Infografía: Clarín
Impacto de la suba del dólar en la inflación de julio y agosto

De esa manera, no hubo un traslado generalizado a precios del salto de casi 14% que pegó el dólar el mes pasado. Pero los analistas advierten que podría sentirse en agosto y prevén una leve aceleración respecto de julio. En una entrevista en el streaming Carajo, Caputo reconoció que podría darse.

El mes arrancó con subas de precios de hasta 2% en productos de supermercados y bienes durables como autos, que los economistas anticipan que presionarán a la inflación mensual.

Sin embargo, esperan un impacto moderado y que el traslado se limite a determinados rubros por la baja de 4% del dólar oficial en lo que va del mes y la persistente caída del consumo masivo.

En el sector, explican que varias listas que entraron en vigencia en las góndolas estaban previstas de antemano y negaron que fueran consecuencia del dólar. Apuntan que son actualizaciones que suelen fijarse 15 días antes, a mediados de mes, y que siguen la inflación, después de meses en los que argumentan que prácticamente no se tocaron, por lo que señalan que venían “atrasados”.
Hubo subas destacadas en verduras, tubérculos y legumbres. Foto: Marcelo CarrollHubo subas destacadas en verduras, tubérculos y legumbres. Foto: Marcelo Carroll

Según el Relevamiento de Expectativas de Mercado (REM) del Banco Central, que recoge las proyecciones de consultoras y centros de investigación de forma mensual, 2025 terminaría con una inflación de 27,3%, por encima del 22,7% que proyectó el Gobierno.

“El dato estuvo alineado con nuestro relevamiento de precios para Gran Buenos Aires y Nación, y el más positivo es la núcleo. Salvo verduras y en menor medida carnes, el resto tuvo poca variación. En julio, pesa lo estacional y el turismo, y en el Gran Buenos Aires, como anticipó el dato de la Ciudad, el transporte de pasajeros incidió. Por como viene hasta ahora, agosto está en línea con estos números”, señaló María Castiglioni, directora de C&T.

“El dato preocupante es la suba en alimentos, por el salto en frutas y verduras que impacta en la canasta básica. El pass-through (traslado) fue bajo por la contracción de márgenes ante la demanda amesetada. Es destacable la desaceleración de la núcleo. La desinflación prosigue, a velocidad más moderada”, opinó Ricardo Delgado, presidente de Analytica, firma que pronosticó un IPC de 1,9%.

“Tal como preveíamos, el IPC arrojó un 1,9%, con una desaceleración marcada en la núcleo y suba de estacionales. Es probable que la inflación arranque con 2% en agosto, pero no superaría 2,5%”, estimó Lorenzo Sigaut Gravina, director de Equilibra.

“La estacionalidad de julio juega fuerte en contra por las vacaciones, por lo que era esperable un IPC mayor. Sin la estacionalidad, sigue mostrando una desaceleración”, destacó Clara Alesina, economista de Fundación Libertad y Progreso, que también acertó el pronóstico.

Agregó que los impactos en el dólar no se trasladaron de forma significativa y anticipó que proyectan un IPC cercano a 2% en agosto. ﻿“La clave estará en cómo maneja la liquidez el Banco Central y lo que pueda absorber el Tesoro en las licitaciones de deuda”, consideró.

Tuesday's inflation data is expected to show that prices are rising faster than they have in months. However, the Trump administration's federal budget and staffing cuts are making that data slightly more murky.
Tuesday's inflation data is expected to show that prices are rising faster than they have in months. However, the Trump administration's federal budget and staffing cuts are making that data slightly more murky.
David Paul Morris/Bloomberg/Getty Images

The next batch of inflation data from the Bureau of Labor Statistics was already shaping up to be a high-profile affair due to the expected impact of President Donald Trump’s hefty tariffs. But after Trump fired the agency’s top statistician, Tuesday’s report now comes with some other, unexpected baggage.

July’s Consumer Price Index is set to be released at 8:30 a.m. ET on Tuesday, just 11 days after Trump’s unprecedented firing of the head of the BLS, following a lackluster jobs report that contained substantial revisions to prior months of employment data. The president baselessly claimed that BLS Commissioner Erika McEntarfer “rigged” the data (an allegation that Trump’s former BLS head and a cadre of statisticians and economists resoundingly disputed).

Moreover, the data that feeds into the CPI could make the closely watched inflation gauge subject to greater revisions, in part due to Trump administration’s budget and staffing cuts.

“There’s going to be a larger margin of error with an expectation of rolling revisions to the CPI data in a way that is somewhat similar to what we see in the jobs data and the durable goods data,” Joe Brusuelas, chief economist at RSM US, told CNN.

The BLS, one of many federal agencies subject to the Department of Government Efficiency’s blunt axe, has increasingly cut back on the data collection that feeds into the critical pricing gauge.

Since April, the BLS stopped collecting data in three not-so-small metro areas (Buffalo, New York; Lincoln, Nebraska; and Provo, Utah) and further leaned on an imputation process used to estimate prices by means other than direct, local observations (such as making price comparisons on a regional or national basis instead).

The BLS said in early June that the tri-city collection reductions (which amounted to roughly 3.6% of the CPI’s overall sample) were expected to have “minimal” impact on the overall index but increase the volatility of geographic- or item-specific price indexes.

Two weeks ago, the agency shared a statistical analysis of those cutbacks using a 77-month study period. It showed that the annual inflation reading was one-tenth of a percentage point higher in 18% of those months and one-tenth of a percentage point lower in 14% of those months.

In that same notice, however, BLS also disclosed that it made a 15% wholesale reduction in collections across the other 72 coverage areas.

“Collection suspension affects both the Commodity and Services Pricing survey and the Housing survey,” the BLS wrote. “As a result, the number of collected prices and the number of collected rents used to calculate the CPI has temporarily been reduced.”

The BLS did not share any statistical analysis of those wider cuts nor provide enough information for others to estimate that, Alan Detmeister, a UBS senior economist who previously helmed the Federal Reserve’s Wages and Prices section, told CNN.

“The 15% of the remaining sample is four times larger than the number of observations dropped than those three cities,” he said. “And if those three cities already made it round differently a third of the time. You’re probably talking a tenth or so on overall inflation. Not huge, but it’s something.”

“It’s definitely degrading the quality of the inflation statistics,” he said.

While the reductions in price observations and increase in imputations could make the CPI data — especially on a monthly basis — less sharp, it’s not expected to cause similar large variations as seen in the survey-driven jobs report, which is reliant on an increasingly shrinking sample of respondents, RSM’s Brusuelas said.

“It’s going to bore us to sleep watching the back revisions in the CPI and [Personal Consumption Expenditures] data,” he said.
Related article
Some goods prices have been marching higher in recent weeks. Economists expect that to broaden and worsen.

Prices are now starting to rise because of tariffs. Economists say this is just the beginning

The issues of greater importance involving the CPI data is what Tuesday’s numbers say about the trajectory of inflation and any coinciding pushback from the Trump administration on any report that shows tariffs are driving prices higher, Brusuelas said.

For any presidential administration, that’s “tantamount to engaging in self-harm, attempting to tell the public that prices aren’t rising, when they can clearly feel it in their own bottom lines and reduced purchasing power of their paychecks,” he said. “You saw what happened when the Biden administration tried to play down price increases as inflation growth was slowing. It did not resonate.”

In June, CPI rose to 2.7%, its highest level in four months, as price increases — including those from tariffs — packed a bigger punch.

July’s CPI is expected to tell a similar tale: Tariffs are causing higher prices on a wider swath of goods while falling gas prices and tepid consumer demand is keeping a lid on some services prices.

All in all, the index is expected to rise 0.2% for the month and tick up to 2.8% on an annual basis, according to FactSet consensus estimates.

The July CPI will show “further evidence of tariff-induced inflation eroding the purchasing power of consumer paychecks,” Brusuelas said. “The thing to understand is this is not going to happen with a bang but more of a slow deterioration in purchasing power.”


Warmer weather and a series of sporting events lifted retail sales last month but retailers said the return to growth “barely touched the sides” and warned that mooted higher taxes would lead to shop closures and job losses.

Retail sales rose by 2.5% year on year in July as consumers rushed to buy food during England’s successful Euros football campaign and the British & Irish Lions rugby tour of Australia.

The warm weather encouraged shoppers to spend on clothes, while homeware and indoor furniture sales grew steadily, recovering from the previous year’s decline, according to British Retail Consortium-KPMG data.

The BRC report said Britain’s fifth-warmest July on record played a significant role in the resurgence, bolstering home appliance and food and drink sales. In June it reported an annualised growth rate of just 0.5%.

A separate survey by Barclaycard found consumers were more inclined to spend on discretionary items, crediting the general release of tickets for Lewis Capaldi’s 2025 tour for helping to lift the amount spent on live shows and concerts by 9.3% in July.

A report this week by the market research company Circana suggested adults’ spending on toys had been a fillip for retailers. It found that UK toy sales had risen 8% so far this year, after a fall of almost 4% in 2024.

Barclaycard said consumer card spending grew 1.4% year on year in July, compared with a decline of 0.1% in June. Discretionary spending jumped by 2.4% but essential spending declined 0.7%.

Consumers appeared to still be confident in their own finances, matching previous months, but a gap has opened up with perceptions of the wider economy, the credit card provider said.

Confidence in the strength of the UK economy fell three points month on month to 22%, the lowest level since January (21%), having climbed in May to 28%, Barclaycard said.

Meanwhile, consumers remained confident they could balance their personal finances. This measure held firm at 75%, just one point below the 76% recorded in June. Confidence in household finances stabilised at 72%, down marginally from 73% in June, which was a four-month high.

The average worker in the UK has benefited from more than two years of inflation-busting wage rises, increasing disposable incomes. Most households have built up higher levels of savings during that time, fearing that a decline in the economic outlook will result in higher redundancy levels and lower pay growth.

The BRC said tax rises and pay increases from the higher national minimum wage worth £7bn would continue to weigh heavily on employers, and warned jobs could go if the chancellor, Rachel Reeves, adds further costs to retailers by raising taxes in the autumn as anticipated.

The chief executive of the BRC, Helen Dickinson, said the 2.5% increase in retail sales was higher than the 12-month average growth of 1.9%, but food inflation meant most consumers were buying the same amount, just at higher prices.
skip past newsletter promotion

Sign up to Business Today
Free daily newsletter

Get set for the working day – we'll point you to all the business news and analysis you need every morning
Enter your email address
Privacy Notice: Newsletters may contain info about charities, online ads, and content funded by outside parties. For more information see our Privacy Policy. We use Google reCaptcha to protect our website and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply.

after newsletter promotion

“With sales growth at these levels, it is barely touching the sides of covering the new costs imposed on retailers at the last budget,” she said. “If the upcoming autumn budget sees more taxes levied on retailers’ shoulders, many will be forced to make difficult choices about the future of shops and jobs, and ongoing pressure would push prices higher.

“Ultimately, this means more families struggling, particularly those on lower incomes, reduced consumer spending and a drag on economic growth.”

Barclaycard said consumers were using artificial intelligence to manage their personal finances. It said 35% of UK adults had used AI to help them plan, budget or analyse their spending, rising to 69% among gen Z consumers.

Linda Ellett, a spokesperson for KPMG, said a jump in the spend on discretionary items only made up for some of the hit to household spending power after inflation rose to 3.6% in June.

“With employment costs having risen and inflation both a business and consumer side pressure, it remains a challenging trading environment for many retailers,” she said.
Explore more on these topics

Coca-Cola is one of the most recognisable brands in the world. The company claims to adhere to the "highest ethical standards" and to be "an outstanding corporate citizen in every community we serve". Yet Coca-Cola's activities around the world tell a different story.

Coca-Cola has been accused of dehydrating communities in its pursuit of water resources to feed its own plants, drying up farmers' wells and destroying local agriculture. The company has also violated workers' rights in countries such as Colombia, Turkey, Guatemala and Russia. Only through its multi-million dollar marketing campaigns can Coca-Cola sustain the clean image it craves.

The company admits that without water it would have no business at all. Coca-Cola's operations rely on access to vast supplies of water, as it takes almost three litres of water to make one litre of Coca-Cola. In order to satisfy this need, Coca-Cola is increasingly taking over control of aquifers in communities around the world. These vast subterranean chambers hold water resources collected over many hundreds of years. As such they the represent the heritage of entire communities.

Coca-Cola's operations have particularly been blamed for exacerbating water shortages in regions that suffer from a lack of water resources and rainfall. Nowhere has this been better documented than in India, where there are now community campaigns against the company in several states. research carried out by War on Want in the Indian states of Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh affirms the findings from Kerala and Maharastra that Coca-Cola's activities are having a serious negative impact on farmers and local communities.

Coca-Cola established a bottling plant in the village of Kaladera in Rajasthan at the end of 1999. Rajasthan is well known as a desert state, and Kaladera is a small, impoverished village characterised by semi-arid conditions. Farmers rely on access to groundwater for the cultivation of their crops. but since Coca-Cola's arrival, they have been confronted with a serious decline in water levels. Locals are increasingly unable to irrigate their lands and sustain their crops, putting whole families at risk of losing their livelihoods.

Local villagers testify that Coca-Cola's arrival exacerbated an already precarious situation. Official documents from the government's water ministry show that water levels remained stable from 1995 until 2000, when the Coca-Cola plant became operational. Water levels then dropped by almost 10 metres over the following five years. Locals fear Kaladera could become a 'dark zone', the term used to describe areas that are abandoned due to depleted water resources.

Other communities in India that live and work around Coca-Cola's bottling plants are experiencing severe water shortages as well as environmental damage. Local villagers near the holy city of Varanasi in Uttar Pradesh complain that the company's over-exploitation of water resources has taken a heavy toll on their harvests and led to the drying up of wells. As in Rajasthan and Kerala, villagers have held protests against the local Coca-Cola plant for its appropriation of valuable water resources.

In the now infamous case of Plachimada in the southern state of Kerala, Coca-Cola's plant was forced to close down in March 2004 after the village council refused to renew the company's licence, on the grounds that it had over-used and contaminated local water resources. Four months earlier, the Kerala High Court had ruled that Coca-Cola's heavy extraction from the common groundwater resource was illegal, and ordered it to seek alternative sources for its production.

In 2003 the independent Centre for Science and Environment tested Coca-Cola beverages and found levels of pesticides around 30 times higher than European Union standards. Levels of DDT, which is banned in agriculture in India, were nine times higher than the EU limit. In February 2004 Indian MPs who investigated CSE's studies upheld these findings and the Parliament went on to ban Coca-Cola from its cafeterias.

Besides these issues, War on Want's Alternative Report on Coca-Cola also details how Coca-Cola is having a devastating impact of water resources elsewhere. In El Salvador, the company has been accused of exhausting water resources over a 25-year period. In Chiapas, Coca-Cola is positioning itself to take control of the water resources. The Mexican government under Vicente Fox - himself a former President of Coca-Cola Mexico - has given the company concessions to exploit community water resources.

Coca-Cola's own workers have also suffered and the company is being increasingly associated with anti-union activities. The most notable case is in Colombia, where paramilitaries have killed eight Coca-Cola workers since 1990. The main Coca-Cola trade union Sinaltrainal is seeking to hold Coca-Cola liable for using paramilitaries to engage in anti-union violence.

Coca-Cola is being sued on behalf of transport workers and their families for its part in the alleged intimidation and torture of trade unionists and their families by special branch police in Turkey. In Nicaragua, workers of the main Coca-Cola union SUTEC have been denied the right to organise and the General Secretary of SUTEC, Daniel Reyes, believes the objective of this ongoing and escalating campaign is to crush the union.

Guatemalan workers have been struggling against Coca-Cola since the 1970s. In the years between 1976 and 1985, three general secretaries of the main union were assassinated and members of their families, friends and legal advisers were threatened, arrested, kidnapped, shot, tortured and forced into exile. The violations of workers' rights continue. And Coca-Cola workers and their family members, with ties to unions, have reportedly been subjected to death threats. Elsewhere in countries such as Peru, Russia and Chile, Coca-Cola workers have been protesting against the company's anti-union policies. Coca-Cola claims to exist "to benefit and refresh everyone it touches" and to try to sustain this positive image, the company spends $2 billion a year on advertising alone. Yet there are signs that the image is beginning to crumble. The relay carrying the Olympic flame was repeatedly disrupted by protests at Coca-Cola's role as the principal sponsor, with the Turin council actually declaring the city a no-go zone for the company (a decision subsequently overruled by the mayor).

University campuses throughout the USA and Europe have voted to cancel contracts with Coca-Cola in protest at its operations, and in solidarity with the community resistance which has escalated in many countries across the world. It is up to us to keep up the pressure on Coca-Cola and also send a strong message to our elected leaders to rein in irresponsible business practices.

